
 
  
   
  Pexels 
  
  
   
    
    Virtual currency holds lots of promise. Is it the future of online marketing though? 
    
   
  
 
In 2006, TIME Magazine awarded the coveted “Person Of the Year” cover to us, the consumer of information on the Internet.  The cover read, “You control the information age. Welcome to your world.” 
The thought was nice but over the past decade plus not much has changed about the way content is created, distributed and monetized online. One man says that consumers are actually not in control at all. In fact he feels, and many might agree, that when it comes to consuming content on the Internet, the audiences are getting more than just short changed, they are getting completely taken advantage of. 
Audiences hold all the value to content publishers online. They are the magnets that attract advertising revenue, which makes content creation possible. And most importantly, audiences purchase the products and services online that make advertisers profitable. Everyone is financially benefiting from audiences, except the audience. 
 
  
All's Not Fair In Online Marketing 
Ivan Jiang is one man who believes this is not the most fair of conditions shall we say so he created the platform Merculet, which is a combination of content distribution network, advertising platform, and payment platform.  It uses Blockchain technology to transform the way merchants, advertisers, producers, and consumers interact and benefit from their co-existence.  Merchants are essentially any enterprise looking to increase sales or engagement. 
By acquiring virtual currency from the platform, they can then invest that currency into advertising. The advertisers can they strategically align themselves with content creators to generate the most effective and targeted visibility for the merchants they represent. 
 
Various metrics can be used by advertisers to optimize the placements of their ads and also help choose the content producers they partner with. Most importantly, content consumers, based on various actions that can range from watching a show, to sitting through an entire commercial without skipping ahead, to filling out a lead form, are rewarded using virtual currency that allows them to purchase products and services from merchants on the platform.