
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro delivers a speach during a press conference to launch to the market a new oil-backed cryptocurrency called 'Petro', at the Miraflores Presidential Palace in Caracas, on February 20, 2018. Venezuela formally launched its new oil-backed cryptocurrency on Tuesday in an unconventional bid to haul itself out of a deepening economic crisis. The leftist Caracas government put 38.4 million units of the world's first state-backed digital currency, the Petro, on private pre-sale from the early hours. A total of 100 million Petros will go on sale, with an initial value set at $60, based on the price of a barrel of Venezuelan crude in mid-January. / AFP PHOTO / FEDERICO PARRA (Photo credit should read FEDERICO PARRA/AFP/Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
Ask anybody in crypto or blockchain circles about the Venezuelan petro and you’ll likely get a predictable eyeroll response, but one former counterrorism analyst says the imbroglio needs to be taken more seriously the community. 
The February rollout of the petro, the world’s first cryptocurrency backed by a sovereign nation, was abuzz with shenanigans - from embattled President Nicolas Maduro's unverified boasting of the total amount of funds raised (supposedly $5B) to confusion over which blockchain it was actually being launched on (was it ethereum or was it NEM?). 
Soon enough, “scam” labels from crypto-asset rating sites were applied and an executive order from President Donald Trump was issued prohibiting any U.S. citizen from purchasing or transacting in the currency. 
 
  
Taken together, these are reason enough to dismiss the cryptocurrency as a half-baked attempt to avoid sanctions at best and a outright scam at worst. But the underlying precedent set by the emergence of the petro isn’t being given the attention it deserves, argued Yaya Fanusie, director of the Center for Sanctions and Illicit Finance at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a think tank in Washington, D.C. 
Speaking at a panel discussion Tuesday morning on cryptocurrencies and sanctions, Fanusie - a former CIA counterrorism analyst - argued that the petro must be viewed by the blockchain community and financial and law enforcement authorities as an experiment that other rogue states will surely learn from and build upon. 
 
While it’s unlikely that the petro itself has sufficient buy-in from potential users who might attribute actual value to it over time, if the next country in line were to band together enough stakeholders and sentiment to back a similar token, the results could be quite different from a threat assessment perspective. 
“Venezuela is a really good test case. With Venezuela, on the face of it this is going to be a non-valuable token,” he explained. “But then I ask the question: ‘Ok, well what would allow it to work? What would allow it to gain value?’”