
There were hundreds of tech companies formed during the tech bubble in 1998 to 2000. It seemed that anyone starting a business based on the Internet and had an i in its name would have VCs competing to throw money at them. Companies just had to show they had eyeballs, and not revenue, to justify absurd valuations. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    A visual representation of the digital Cryptocurrency, Bitcoin. Photo Illustration by Chesnot/Getty Images 
    
   
  
 
[Ed note: Investing in cryptocoins or tokens is highly speculative and the market is largely unregulated. Anyone considering it should be prepared to lose their entire investment.] 
Revenue was secondary and profits were something that would be generated down the road, somehow. Public companies would split their shares and they would move higher, even though the underlying fundamentals and valuations had not changed. Sound familiar? 
Morgan Stanley’s Strategist,  Sheena Shah, believes there are similarities between Bitcoin and the Nasdaq during the tech bubble. Both had huge increases in value and have fallen dramatically. Bitcoin seems to have collapsed in the same manner. 
 
  
In the chart below it shows the Nasdaq from June 1994 to June 2002, or over 8 years. The timeframe for Bitcoin is February 2017 to February 2018, or 1 year.  If Bitcoin follows the same pattern it could be around $1,500 in a few months time frame. 
 
  
   
  Bloomberg, Morgan Stanley Research 
  
  
   
    
    Bitcoin vs. Nasdaq trading pattern 
    
   
  
 
 
Shah’s report includes analysis of the Nasdaq’s peaks and troughs and compares them to Bitcoin’s. While it is a limited dataset he found some disturbing similarities in that: 
 
 The four trough to peaks for the Nasdaq averaged 40% 
 The three trough to peaks for Bitcoin have averaged 43% 
 The five peak to troughs for the Nasdaq averaged a decline of 44% 
 The three peak to troughs for Bitcoin have averaged a decline of 47% 
 
Shah’s analysis is similar to Stefan Hofrichter who is Allianz’s Head of Global Economics & Strategy. He has developed 8 criteria to determine if an asset is in a price bubble, which Bitcoin is showing similarities to a number of them. 
On the other hand Tom Lee, currently the Head of Research at Fundstrat and ex-J.P. Morgan Chief Equity Strategist, believes that Bitcoin is in an oversold condition per his Bitcoin Misery Index and that it could reach $91,000 by early 2020. However, he isn’t surprised that Bitcoin is having troubles as it has experienced large declines before.