
Most people wouldn’t set foot inside a plane with non-certified parts, bring tainted food home to their family or hire someone with false credentials on their resume. Time was when lack of knowledge kept consumers and business from authenticating stuff – be it equipment, supply chains or documents. Now blockchain is starting to emerge as fraud fighter extraordinaire. I heard several experts talk up blockchain’s potential strengths during a recent SAP Radio broadcast of Startup Focus with Game-Changers entitled, “Blockchain, Trust and Startups,” hosted by Bonnie D. Graham.
Ethical, compliant supply chains
 
  
   
  Shutterstock 
  
  
   
    
    Blockchain is starting to emerge as fraud fighter extraordinaire. 
    
   
  

The group was united on one point: every industry can benefit from blockchain’s foundation of digital trust. Peter Ebert, Senior Vice President of Sales and Business Development at Cryptowerk, expanded on a conversation I had with him during a VIDEO interview onsite at SAP TechEd where he demonstrated a blockchain use case that that helped the pharmaceutical industry better track drugs. During the radio show, he positioned blockchain as an incredible fraud fighter supporting ethical supply chains, as well as end-to-end visibility for regulators.
“If you buy anything…you want to make sure that there’s no child labor involved, that the raw materials were sourced in a fair way, that you are not paying for a counterfeit and think it’s the real thing,” said Ebert. “Many different laws in various industries demand to know from where was it something shipped, when was it delivered or returned. Blockchain automates this trust that you need to store all these events with trust embedded.”
 Every industry can benefit from #blockchain’s foundation of embedded digital trust @SAPRadio
Safety in the skies
Drew Hingorani, CEO of AI-BlockChain, recounted how an airplane crashed when a maintenance crew member put a jackscrew in the wrong place.

“The lubricant didn’t recognize the jackscrew because the actual jackscrew that was supposed to go into that spot had a different composite. But if you track the jet engine parts, which is a use case we’re talking about currently, you can actually solve that problem using blockchain technology,” said Hingorani.
Fraud fighter extraordinaire
Ebert agreed that aerospace engineering was a compelling use case for blockchain.
“You have parts that are very expensive, being swapped out of one airplane into another, and then suddenly you have a part that didn’t come from where you thought it would come from. It doesn’t comply with the quality metrics that are required, and you find yourself with your loved ones sitting in a plane where even if it’s just five parts, they are not what they are supposed to be. And that’s very scary,” he said.
Blockchain spots fakes anywhere
Ebert thinks the same authenticity scenarios are true for enterprise software. “We see things where you look at an image, you look at a video, and you hear somebody talk and you think you know who it is and it sounds and looks completely authentic but it isn’t,” he said. “The very foundations of our trust can be shaken by [other] technologies, and blockchain can come in and can automate this trust…at some point, you will actually not trust a document that is being presented to you unless it’s anchored in a blockchain somewhere.”
Trust in blockchain
Andreas Fichter, SAP Innovation Center Network, predicted blockchain’s eventual emergence as the new standard for trust, whether tracking documents, 3D printing, or any kind of digital asset across enterprises and in the consumer space.
“Paper is dead, and everything will be digitalized and there will be a new expectation when it comes to trust in those new digital records, and in how we conduct business,” he said. “Probably we’ll get to the point where people will say, why haven’t we done this before, or why was it so complicated before?”
This blog was originally posted on the Medium Community under SAP Innovation Spotlight.