
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Bill Harris, founder and chief executive officer of Personal Capital Corp., speaks during the Bloomberg Technology Conference in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Tuesday, June 14, 2016. (Tony Avelar/Bloomberg) 
    
   
  
 
In a recent post for Recode, founding PayPal CEO and former Intuit CEO Bill Harris made the case that bitcoin is a “colossal pump-and-dump scheme, the likes of which the world has never seen.” 
The main section of Harris’s post is aimed at three key areas of the bitcoin debate: means of payment, store of value, and intrinsic value. He even pulled out the ever-popular argument: “Bitcoin has no value at all.” 
In terms of the use of bitcoin as a means of payment, Harris claimed bitcoin is accepted almost nowhere and is useless anyway due to the possibility of a 10 percent price swing in a single day. 
 
  
First of all, bitcoin is undoubtedly useful as a means of payment in specific scenarios where there are no other options available to the user. For example, Amazon Mechanical Turk workers who find it difficult to transfer value out of the system often turn to bitcoin by way of Purse.io. Harris even admitted the usefulness of bitcoin for value transfer later in the post when he talked about criminal use of bitcoin as a means of payment. 
Whether you find a specific use of bitcoin morally acceptable does not have any impact on whether that use case exists in the real world. Additionally, what constitutes as illegal commerce can vary wildly throughout the world (not to mention history). 
 
Harris also discussed the efficiency issues (e.g. costs, delays) associated with Bitcoin as it exists today, which is ignorant of layer-two networks such as the Lightning Network (see this explanation of how the Lightning Network makes bitcoin much more useful for payments). But again, this sort of misses the point as the key value proposition here is censorship-resistant payments rather than buying a coffee at Starbucks. 
 
 "I don't think this is about paying for coffee." https://t.co/aU8kjFFxj3 
 — Kyle Torpey (@kyletorpey) April 23, 2018 
 
In terms of the price volatility (which gets into the store of value argument), the day-to-day price swings do not much matter to those who aren’t living paycheck to paycheck and are willing to hold bitcoin for reasons related to political philosophy, price speculation, or other reasons.