
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Bitcoin exchange shop at Grzegorzecka Street in Krakow, Poland on 15 March, 2018. (Photo by Beata Zawrzel/NurPhoto via Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
An Initial Coin Offering (”ICO”) is a controversial means of crowdfunding using cryptocurrency. Effectively, it is a way to obtain funding from the public without facing the legal barriers required by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in the United States or its counterparts in various foreign countries. This means that it is completely unregulated and that the risk is entirely on the individual who decides to invest or fund the ICO. 
It’s safe to assume that there is going to be rampant fraud involved in ICOs as 10% of all funds raised through ICOs were considered “phishing, Ponzi schemes and other scams” according to Cointelegraph. Ignoring the blatant cases of fraud, investing in an ICO means that you’re usually “promised” something but you have effectively no practical recourse for your investment. Common sense would dictate that you’re going to lose your money. 
That being said, I believe that everyone is allowed to invest in whatever they choose. Even the best Initial Public Offerings (“IPO”) can be questionable. Thus, if you decide to waive your legal protections offered by regulated markets, then I sincerely hope that you won’t cry foul when it doesn’t work out. 
 
  
For a startup or company that offers an ICO, the ICO is probably something that you’ll need to consider for accounting purposes. Deloitte has offered a “perspective” on the ICO and effectively said very little because no one wants to be tied down to an opinion, if they’re wrong. Thus, the question is what is an ICO for accounting purposes? 
Is an ICO Income? 
An ICO may be offered in exchange for services such as the offering provided by Filecoin. If you’re offering an ICO in exchange for service, then it is income – unquestionably. It is prepaid income for your company for services that you owe the owners of the coin. This is true, even if you have yet to produce a product to deliver. But, this does not guarantee that every ICO is treated as income. It depends entirely on how you’ve “offered” the ICO. 
 
An ICO may not be income, if your ICO was advertised as a loan. You didn’t offer or promise to provide a service in exchange for their funding. Your company asked to borrowing money to fund your company, thus you’ve incurred debt.