
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    The Sugar Loaf is one of the main tourist attractions of Rio de Janeiro and receives thousands of tourists daily. To get to the top of the hill of Urca and the hill of Sugar Loaf, currently used cable cars deployed in 1972 idealized by the Italian firm Nardo, and awarded the 4th Mountain Hall in Turin in 1971. The service of the Bondinho has been operating since 1912 The current cable car has the capacity to carry 1360 passengers per hour. From the top of the mountain you can see several points of the city, including Flamengo Park, Cristo Redentor, Santos Dumont Airport, Guanabara Bay, beaches and several other points. Image taken on March 16, 2017, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (Photo by Luiz Souza/NurPhoto via Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
Brazil’s securities regulator is set to give the green light in early May for fund managers to “indirectly” invest in cryptocurrencies, according to local news reports. 
The Comissão de Valores Mobiliários, which acts as Brazil’s equivalent of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States, will publish guidance advising fund managers on the extent to which they can participate in global cryptocurrency markets without running afoul of local regulators, according to the Folha de S. Paulo - Brazil’s largest newspaper. 
The document will lay out the rules and procedures that fund managers must abide by when becoming involved with cryptocurrency, such as disclosing these activities to potential investors as well as the value proposition for becoming involved in the first place. 
“The opinion to be released by the agency will explain under which circumstances an indirect investment by funds in cryptocurrencies will be permitted,” explained Daniel Maeda, director of institutional investor relations at CVM, according to Reuters. 
 
  
An often overlooked market, Brazil’s cryptocurrency ecosystem grew from virtually non-existent in 2014 to $2.5B in 2017. 
The guidance, which figures to give more legal certainty to the industry within Brazil, will come on the heels of a similar pronouncement issued by the CVM in January of this year prohibiting funds from directly investing in cryptocurrencies like bitcoin on the grounds that they are not financial assets. 
The CVM did however, leave the door open for indirect involvement in the future.