
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    This picture taken on April 7, 2017 shows a man walking past a signboard informing customers that Bitcoin can be used for payment at a store in Tokyo. Frenchman Mark Karpeles, former CEO of collapsed Bitcoin exchange MtGox, heads to trial in Tokyo on July 11, 2017 on charges stemming from the disappearance of hundreds of millions of dollars worth of the virtual currency from its digital vaults. (TORU YAMANAKA/AFP/Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
Bitcoin, Ethereum and Ripple continue to make headlines for their worst first-quarter price performances in history. Conversely, BitPay - the largest global blockchain payment provider - just closed $40 million in its extended Series B funding round. 
While many of the top cryptocurrencies are down in the dumps,  BitPay has raised a total of over $70 million in capital and processed over $1 billion in Bitcoin payments in 2017. 
BitPay’s CEO, Stephen Pair, announced in a press release that one of the company’s future goals is to expand into emerging markets in Asia, which is also one of BitPay’s fastest growing regions for cryptocurrency transactions and wallet adoption.  
 
  
“Bitcoin is increasingly popular in Asia-Pacific and we see huge potential for cross-border payments. Using the Bitcoin network, we can enable businesses to have invoices paid in one day for a fee that is less than traditional banks. We also see huge growth in wallet adoption for consumers who are now looking to spend Bitcoin for purchases,” Pair told me. 
And despite the price of Bitcoin dropping, Menlo Ventures – whose portfolio includes companies like Uber, Warby Parker and Roku - still decided to invest in BitPay’s Series B round. This was also its first institutional cryptocurrency investment. 
 
“We gravitated toward BitPay because we felt the company had identified a killer use for cryptocurrency in facilitating low cost payment solutions for cross-border commerce and business-to-business payments, which is a massive market poorly served by the existing payment rails,” said Tyler Sosin, a partner at Menlo Ventures. 
Bitcoin Payments Breaking Barriers 
Rather than focusing on cryptocurrencies as trading assets, BitPay is shedding light on the benefits of using Bitcoin and other forms of cryptocurrencies as payments - a real world use case that is often overshadowed by the trading hype surrounding the crypto market.   
Asia in particular has found an enormous amount of value in using cryptocurrencies to facilitate low-cost payment solutions for both cross-border and local commerce. In general, Asia has been an early innovator in developing an ecosystem for digital payments. 
For instance, the popular Chinese multi-purpose messaging app, WeChat, has become a leading payment provider for local commerce in China. “WeChat Pay” is a payment feature integrated into the WeChat app that allows users to scan a QR code to make quick transactions on smartphones. WeChat Pay is accepted in almost all major restaurants, bars and retailers throughout the region. Walmart in Western China also just recently started using WeChat Pay for its digital payment system. 
And following Japan’s recognition of Bitcoin as a legal form of payment in April 2017, Bitcoin payments facilitated by retailers, merchants and major stores are becoming more common. Japan’s Bic Camera, Capsule Hotels and Peach Airlines have all started integrating Bitcoin  payments. 
Moreover, last month, BitPay announced a partnership with Bithumb, one of the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchanges, to launch a blockchain based cross border payment solution. This was designed to help South Korean businesses make and receive international payments with Europe and the United States much faster, with less friction and lower fees. 
Trade between South Korea with Europe and America is expected to reach $200 billion this year.  By implementing Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash payments, businesses pay a fee of 1% per transaction and can receive cross-border confirmation in one business day. Depending on the foreign exchange rates and each banks’ wire rates, an average bank wire to or from South Korea could take three to five business days and fees could cost approximately 4%.  
“BitPay’s cross-border business-to-business payments solution has been used by numerous customers around the world, helping to save costs and reduce payment times.  The partnership with Bithumb allows us to focus on South Korean businesses paying or receiving $100,000 to $5 million per invoice, where a 1 -2% savings on each invoice can lead to dramatic cost savings,” said Sonny Singh, chief commercial officer of BitPay.  
And according to Singh, the trading price of Bitcoin doesn’t affect the transactions. 
 
 In the business-to-business scenario, the company buys Bitcoin and pays at that very moment, so there is never any Bitcoin risk associated. The person receiving the payment then gets paid the full amount in U.S. dollars, Singh said. For example, if a Korean business buys $100,000 worth of Bitcoin and pays immediately, the receiver will get $100,000 the next day – regardless of the price of Bitcoin. And if Bitcoin crashes the next week and the Korean business has another invoice to pay, they will buy another $100,000 worth of Bitcoin at that current price and then pay the invoice. 
