
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    A Russian court has banned Telegram mobile messaging in Russia. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
    
   
  
 
Telegram, the messaging app preferred by the globetrotting anarcho-libertarians of the cryptocurrency world, has been shut down by the Russian government. Fans of the app will not be moved by the news. In fact, it's a plus. It proves its Russian founder, Pavel Durov, now living in self-imposed exile somewhere between Dubai and a Caribbean Island, has held his ground against the Russian FSB, the top intel agency that has been after Telegram to reveal its encryption keys to law enforcement. 
"Privacy is not for sale," said Pavel Durov today on his Telegram channel. "Human rights should not be compromised out of fear or greed." 
Durov said that the power governments have over companies like Telegram is based on money. A government can crash a stock, or convince investors to back away by threatening to block revenue streams. 
"Current events in Russia could bolster the case for investment in Telegram," says Nolan Bauerle, director of research at CoinDesk. Telegram is issuing its own cryptocurrency to accredited investors. Once the coin launches, it will be tradable among Telegram users to buy and sell services on the Telegram Open Network. 
 
  
If Telegram were to give away keys to its communication channel, in the world of crypto that is akin to giving away keys to your coin. "To stand up to a state actor on an issue of encryption is the right tone to set if you are going to issue your own coin," says Bauerle. "If Telegram gave FSB the keys, the investment case in their coin would be greatly weakened." 
The FSB has been asking Telegram for its encryption in order to access phones seized by terrorists involved in a bombing that took place in St. Petersburg last year. 
Historically, cryptography existed for governments. It was mostly a military device. And it was as secretive as any communications code or weapons technology. Now we are seeing cryptography trickle down to the individual. That is really what the whole cryptocurrency revolution is based on: using cryptography to send messages, and pay for services, at times bypassing governments and larger corporations entirely. 
 
The meta-narrative is that individuals are using cryptography, even when they are not entirely aware of it. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    No stranger to state bans. Here, Pavel Durov meets with Indonesian Communication and Information Minister Rudiantara in Jakarta on Aug. 1, 2017. The Indonesian government threatened to ban Telegram in a move to censor content that includes forums for Islamic State group supporters. (AP Photo/Tatan Syuflana) 
    
   
  
 
"Pavel is part of that narrative," says Bauerle. "He makes the case that it is an indivudals right to use this technology and is not just something for state actors to control anymore." 
Telegram has over 200 million active monthly users worldwide. On March 28, Telegram reported that roughly 700,000 new users had signed up for Telegram each day in the last week of that month. 
Telegram is just as popular in Russia as it is with the global crypto community. 
Margarita Simonyan, the head of the state-funded TV station Russia Today, and Dmitry Peskov, Vladimir Putin’s press secretary, reportedly schedule briefings using the service. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Telegram recorded over 700,000 new accounts a day in the last week of March. The company is issuing their own cryptocurrency. (Shutterstock) 
    
   
  
 
“There are a lot of messaging services, Telegram is a very convenient one, we have been using it to communicate with journalists,” Peskov said last week. “But a law is a law, and if it is violated and no measures are taken, we will search for an alternative.” 
The question is whether the FSB will ask Peskov's alternative to do the same thing they have asked of Telegram. And if that alternative opts to acquiesce to the authorities, will people -- as the saying goes -- decide to kill the messenger, as a result? 
 