
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    A participant sits at a computer monitor to play a video game at the 2018 DreamHack video gaming festival on January 27, 2018 in Leipzig, Germany. The three-day event brings together gaming enthusiasts mainly from German-speaking countries for events including eSports tournaments, cosplay contests and a LAN party with 1,500 participants. (Photo by Jens Schlueter/Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
Esports has been the fastest-growing sport on the planet in recent years by players and viewership, and blockchain and cryptocurrencies could be the catalyst that drives this hot new industry fully into the mainstream, a new report from Macquarie Research predicts. 
While it’s debatable whether or not consider competitive videogaming should be considered a “sport” along the lines of football or basketball, what’s undeniable is the surge of interest this activity has experienced, driven primarily by younger people who grew up in front of PlayStations and Xboxes. 
Macquarie, a Wall Street research firm, expects the global esports market to grow from $892 million in 2016 to $5 billion by 2020 and total viewership to jump from 365 million to nearly 500 million over that same period. Esports tournaments, in which fans pack arenas to watch Counter-Strike: Global Offensive and League of Legends battle royales, have also exploded in popularity. 
 
  
While the industry is still nascent and grappling with natural growing pains, the gradual adoption of blockchain and cryptocurrencies, the report reckons, will likely provide a pivotal boost by enabling more secure betting and exchanges of digital goods, as well as the ability to offer cryptocurrency incentives to gamers and fans alike to participate. 
“While we are still early in the cycle, we believe that blockchain integration could strengthen the broader esports communities and further enhance the professionalization of the industry as it continues to evolve,” wrote Jiang Zhang, a Macquarie analyst and lead author of the report. 
 
Digital Goods Marketplaces 
Zhang sees blockchain playing a key role across several verticals in the sizzling industry, the most apparent being the facilitation of markets for digital goods that increase the overall player experience. 
In this regard, videogaming ecosystems have a natural leg up as potential early adopters of the technology because many of them, such as World of Warcraft, established digital currencies and thriving markets for exchanging digital goods long before the concept of a cryptocurrency had even been conceived.