
 
  
   
  Kelly Holland 
  
  
   
    
    Kelly Holland, CEO of Penthouse Magazine 
    
   
  
 
In follow up to my previous article on the adult entertainment space turning to blockchain and cryptocurrency, this piece will explore in depth, why it's a smart investment decision for these companies to start looking to this space, understanding the taboo that may surround it. Who better to speak to than the CEO of Penthouse Magazine, Kelly Holland. 
Penthouse Looks To A Bigger, Cultural Space 
When Kelly Holland bought Penthouse Magazine back in 2006/2007, she came in looking to revitalize and represent what the 'look and feel' of the brand was. After spending over a year creating content, Holland finally had a deep enough library to launch a broadcasting channel, by looking to blockchain. 
Andrew Rossow: What made you turn your attention to blockchain? 
Kelly Holland: I worked with Stuart Duncan of Vice Industry Token for over nine years, and he was one of the first people I knew to launch a Penthouse channel. From the beginning, I thought Stuart was brilliant--but many people are brilliant in very narrow corridors of specialties. But, Stuart had something I really admired--the "Ted-Talk" concept of being able to connect the dots between all of the disciplines and interdisciplinary brilliance, which is a rarity. He can see beyond his broadcast space to a bigger, cultural view, and how things interconnect. 
 
  
Understanding A History Of Success, And Carrying It Forward 
" We are always looking for new methods in communicating today. That's why I love blockchain ," said Holland. Penthouse Magazine's history of success has continue to live on, even today. However, we are in a time where younger generations aren't gravitating towards hard-cover books or newsstands. The ability to read a book, magazine, document, or newspaper on a smartphone or tablet, is beyond what was ever imagined twenty years ago. 
 
 "I understand what the industry was in 1965, and understand what made it brilliant under Bob Guccione, because I understand his insanity from his crazy film, Caligula. I carry that history forward, but I’m not trapped by it, and that’s a good thing." 
 --Kelly Holland on moving forward from history of the business' success 
 
 
Rossow: From a marketing standpoint, how did you envision attracting a tech-driven generation to the legacy that has been established for decades? 
Holland: My first question was how could I send a message to people who don’t buy magazines? So, I thought to myself, when you want to go to the best party in Hollywood on a Saturday night, but knowing you’ll never get through the door or rope line, what do you do? Rather than figure out how you’re going to get into that party, figure out whose going to that party, and go with them. 
Indeed, Holland did that very thing. She went digital. I mean crypto. With today's millennial generation, everything is digital. You don't see very many millennials walking around with magazines or newspapers. Instead, you see them walk around with devices in their hands, catching up on news via Twitter, Facebook, and Snapchat. 
Moving Past Tradition and Adopting the Blockchain 
Rossow: What caught your attention with blockchain? 
Holland: Even though I didn’t understand it, I knew a few things—where the twenty-three year old, 4Chan, cyber-guys were hanging out. That was a perfect demographic for us. Those were the guys we wanted to talk to. I just wanted to be in that space. As I begun to understand it even more, I loved the elegance of blockchain’s solution in terms of incentivizing people to do what they do naturally—watch free content...within their own private ecosystem. People can take these coins and trade them for goods and services with other partners inside that world, and we  have other products we’d like to place inside that world. It's all about growth and expansion. 
What Does the Future Hold? 
 
 "We've gone from something tangible that you could put on your coffee table in your living room, to something where content easily evaporates and disappears, getting pushed further down individuals' social media pages and Snapchat stories," 
 --Kelly Holland 
 
While no stranger to modernization and growth, Penthouse Magazine entered the broadcast sector immediately upon Holland's arrival. Holland told Forbes that by nature, she's fascinated by cutting-edge technology, spending her time attending conferences like CES and reading other publications like Wired. "While I may not be completely engulfed in it, I understand how I could fit that technology into our business and how to exploit it in the most positive way, eventually becoming ingrained in it," said Holland. 
Rossow: Penthouse has a history of success, why rock the cradle, so to speak? 
Holland: You have to understand that we are striving towards becoming this organic entity, establishing a new pathway of tradition and success. Speaking to the past, Penthouse hasn't disrespected the established tradition.  While we respect our tradition, we are also not trapped by it. We believe we understand where we came from, but in same way, the company in its origin is an appreciatingly different entity that it is now. 
Stay tuned for the next part in my interview with Kelly Holland, going behind the scenes of the industry and how online body shaming has evolved from the traditional concept of "slut-shaming," that started decades ago.