
 
  
   
  Arizona Commerce Authority via Twitter 
  
  
   
    
    Gov. Doug Ducey signs H.B. 2434 into law at AZTech2018 Summit on Thursday, March 23 2018 
    
   
  
 
Arizona has become the first state in the U.S. to adopt a “regulatory sandbox” to shepherd the development of new emerging industries like fintech, blockchain and cryptocurrencies within its borders. 
The law will grant regulatory relief for innovators in these sectors who desire to bring new products to market within the state. 
Under the program, which will take effect later this year, companies will be able to test their products for up to two years and serve as many as 10,000 customers before needing to apply for formal licensure. 
“With the signing of H.B 2434, Arizona will become the ultimate sandbox for the development of Fintech,” Ducey wrote on Twitter once it became official. 
 
  
“FinTech is going to fundamentally transform banking, finance & technology. We're going to be the first in the state to embrace it,” he said at an event hosted by the Arizona Commerce Authority, a business group. 
As the pace of technological change in financial services continues to forge ahead at a sizzling rates that legacy regulatory systems are struggling to keep up with, jurisdictions around the world have moved to establish sandboxes that allow for new products to be deployed on a trial basis in a manner that loosens certain licensing restrictions while still affording consumer protections. 
 
Countries including the United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Australia, Canada and others have implemented sandboxes of their own in an attempt to attract entrepreneurs build local fintech ecosystems. 
Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich, whose agency will oversee the sandbox, has been touting the idea of an Arizona sandbox for over a year, noted that the impetus for the new program was, in part, due to slow movement in Congress and a stalemate among the multiplicity of agencies involved in overseeing the fintech and blockchain industries.