
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    RealityShares gets ready to launch its China-centric blockchain fund as early as next week. (Shutterstock) 
    
   
  
 
If you are of the mind that China is going to be a huge player in blockchain technologies and maybe even cryptocurrency despite bans on digital money exchanges there, then there is a new ETF in the works with your name on it. 
Over the last few months, at least two exchange-traded funds have launched using Bitcoin and blockchain fever to attract investment capital.  It will probably happen again when San Diego-based RealityShares launches their latest ETF. 
When their rival Amplify launched the first blockchain ETF in January with just $2.5 million in seed capital, demand was so massive that their Amplify Transformational Data Sharing (BLOK) fund now has $174 million in assets in just three months. Reality Shares launched their Nasdaq NextGen Economy  (BLCN) ETF around the same time, with the same amount of seed funding. It now has $115 million in net assets. RealityShares thinks they can replicate it by being nichey, and building a pure-play China blockchain ETF that includes investments in mainland companies that are either using or developing, blockchain platforms. 
 
  
The Reality Shares Nasdaq NexGen Economy China fund is supposed to officially launch sometime next week. It has around 39 Chinese companies, including mainland shares and some ADRs traded on the NYSE. They filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 5 and have 75 days to launch. 
Investors have to be careful with China. Although blockchain and cryptocurrencies are two different things (crypto needs blockchain; blockchain doesn't need crypto), China has put bans on cryptocurrency exchanges. That's often very negative for sentiment. Investors also have to trust their equity analysts who are -- hopefully -- doing deep dives into companies that are often conglomerate and multi-focused, meaning they can be vested in projects like Bitcoin exchanges that face the ire of Beijing. 
 
"There are lots of Long Island Iced Tea type of companies in China," says Eric Ervin, RealityShares' CEO. Long Island Iced Tea Beverage Company changed its name to Long Blockchain Corp in late 2017. Its stock rose almost three-fold as a result. 
"The companies we are investing in have to have a blockchain product of their own or a component of blockchain in their business," he says. "Maybe they are just using blockchain from a third party company in order to cut costs. Nasdaq has their own blockchain solution now, for example," he says about their LINQ system.