
More large and established enterprises are now entering the blockchain landscape by adopting the technology and even offering their own blockchain solutions - aka distributed ledger technology (DLT). While admittedly there has been much noise and hype around blockchain, it is argued that these new developments help build up its image as a reliable and secure technology for transactions. 
Evidencing the appeal of the technology in terms of business transformation, new research published this month from Intrinsic Insights and commissioned by BTL Group, identified reduced costs followed by greater data security and protection against cyber threats as the main benefits of blockchain. 
Indeed, almost 9 in 10 (87%) of the technology professionals canvassed in this survey believed that blockchain technology will be as transformative for business as the Internet has been. Some two-thirds of those who responded revealed that they have trialled or are using blockchain technology. And, despite nearly half of those who responded to questions not yet having worked with the technology, they indicated they intended to do so over next two years. 
This increasingly positive backdrop and attitude towards blockchain could even bring activities like Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) in the crytocurrency world towards mainstream adoption and legitimacy, albeit there are caveats. 
 
  
But investors should watch out for the scams and the at times over exuberant claims around ICOs, exercise due diligence and always check the management team behind any venture that pursues such crowdfund raisings. Of course, it should go without saying to anyone contemplating an investment in the space, but the message is worth reinforcing and one I have stressed in my previous posts on Forbes. 
Interestingly perhaps, recent support for blockchain technologies and digital currencies has come from quarters that one might not expect. 
Take Starbucks executive chairman Howard Schultz and a former owner of the Seattle SuperSonics, who has even commented that blockchain and digital currencies may even be part of the company’s future. Such utterances prompted some to speculate that the coffee company, which was founded in Seattle in 1971, may already be making moves to adopt the technology. 
 
However, let us not get too carried away over our café lattes. Schultz, who Forbes magazine ranked as the 232nd richest person in the United States in 2016, and had a net worth of $3.1 billion as of April 2017, subsequently clarified that his statement was not due to any confirmed investments in cryptocurrencies. Rather it was because of how these technologies will likely be part of consumer behavior down the line.