

						
																							
			
			

			
																		

									
													

			    	
    			   
					David A. Grogan | CNBC
							Charles Munger
			
	

									
			
			
														
																		Berkshire Hathaway Vice Chairman Charlie Munger went after bitcoin again on Monday, doubling down on remarks he made about the digital currency over the weekend.
															
																													
					
			
	
												    														"Bitcoin is worthless, artificial gold," Munger told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "Now that is not something I think the world needs."
															
																										    														"The fact that it's clever computer science doesn't mean it should be widely used, and that respectable people should encourage other people to speculate on it," he said. "Bitcoin reminds me of Oscar Wilde's definition of fox hunting: 'The pursuit of the uneatable by the unspeakable.'"
															
																						
																			    														Munger went after the popular cryptocurrency at the Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting on Saturday, calling it a "turd," adding that trading cryptocurrencies is "just dementia."
															
																										    														His partner, Warren Buffett, also commented negatively on bitcoin on Monday, saying it is an asset that does not create anything.
															
																										    														
															
																										    														
															
																										    														 With Berkshire's 2018 annual meeting in the books, users can revisit the highlights in CNBC's Warren Buffett Archive, which houses searchable video from 25 full annual meetings, going back to 1994, synchronized to 2600 pages of transcripts. The Warren Buffett Archive also includes 500 shorter-form videos arranged by topic, CNBC interviews, a Buffett Timeline, and a Berkshire Portfolio Tracker. 
															
																										    																
					