

                            
                                
                                    
        
            LISTEN TO ARTICLE
            
                
                1:25
            
            
                
            
        
    
                                    
        
            Share
            Share on Facebook
            Post to Twitter
            Send as an Email
        
    
                                    
        Print
                                
                                
        
            The European Union reiterated its threat to impose countermeasures if the U.S. doesn’t grant the bloc a permanent exemption from American steel and aluminum tariffs, a decision the Trump administration postponed for 30 days earlier this week.While repeating that the EU won’t negotiate “under threat,” a spokesman for the European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, said “we keep having contact at all levels” over the U.S. levies of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum announced in March on national-security grounds. President Donald Trump on Monday granted another month for the EU, Canada and Mexico to continue negotiations for permanent exemptions from the duties.“The discussion between the EU and the U.S. continues following the announcement of the extension of the EU exemption,” the commission spokesman, Enrico Brivio, told reporters in Brussels on Friday. However, “we are not negotiating under threat.”
        
            {"contentId":"P87BRF6VDKHT01","position":"box","dimensions":{"mobile":[[300,250],[1,1]]},"type":"Mobile Body Box Ad","positionIncrement":1,"targeting":{"position":"box1","positionIncrement":1,"url":"/news/articles/2018-05-04/eu-reiterates-countermeasures-threat-over-u-s-metals-tariffs"},"containerId":"box-f5AKgkh"}
            
        
        QuickTake: Trump Wanted a Trade War. Here’s What One Looks LikeEuropean Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said on Wednesday that the waiver for the EU “should be unconditional and permanent.” He warned the Trump administration against trying to dictate terms of trans-Atlantic trade relations.“The EU is convinced that we should receive a full and unconditional exemption from the announced steel and aluminum tariffs. For the commission, that remains the main goal of these discussions,” the commission spokesman said on Friday. “At the same time, we are preparing a triple WTO-compatible reaction in case the EU is not permanently exempted.”
        
    
                                
                            
                        