
 
  
   
  hodlthemoon.com 
  
  
   
    
    The EOS Logo 
    
   
  
 
Disclosure: Multicoin Capital owns both ETH and EOS. 
The first blockchains based on the EOS.io software are going to launch in June. The market is excited about this launch: the EOS token is up nearly 150% in the last 30 days. 
Multicoin Capital, the hedge fund I co-founded, just published a formal 29-page analysis and valuation about EOS. In this article, I’ll summarize the bull and bear cases for EOS. 
The Bull Case 
The bull case for EOS is, in the most simple terms, that it will take market share from Ethereum. 
 
  
How and why might that happen? 
Block.one, the company that’s building the EOS software, excels in a few areas in which the Ethereum Foundation is lacking. They are: 
 
 Scalability and performance 
 Focus on consumer usability 
  
 Go-to-market focus 
 
The Bull Case: Scalability 
As I wrote about in Models For Scaling Trustless Computation, the Ethereum Foundation has prioritized decentralization at the expense of scalability. On the other hand, Block.one has prioritized scalability at the expense of decentralization. Scalability is not simply a feature. It’s a fundamental ideological decision. As they say, you can’t have your cake and eat it too. 
Since inception, the Ethereum Foundation has presented Ethereum as a “world computer.” While Ethereum is nominally a world computer, in practice it’s not because its performance limited. By making a different set of ideological trade-offs, Block.one is positioning EOS as a viable world computer that can scale from inception. At time of network launch, it’s expected that EOS-based blockchains will accomodate over 1,000 transactions per second (TPS), whereas Ethereum supports ~15 TPS. Moreover, Block.one has outlined a clear path by which EOS-based chains will scale to 10,000 TPS and beyond. 
The Ethereum Foundation’s top priority is scalability. They are approaching scalability from many angles, most notably sharding and plasma. While these approaches are promising, neither is close to materializing. Early plasma implementations will only offer limited functionality, and will not support generalizable smart contracts. Sharding is much more complex, and will be a slow, multi-year roll out that introduces many breaking changes. 
Thus, the bull case for EOS is that application developers want to build performant apps today, and that they will do so on the only viable blockchain that offers the performance they need. 
The Bull Case: Usability 
Dan Larimer, cofounder and CTO of Block.one, has previously built two application specific blockchains: BitShares and Steem. Relative to any Ethereum based application such as Cryptokitties, Peepeth, or Ethergoo, Bitshares and Steem offer far better user experiences. Although neither application went viral, both are still considered best-in-class blockchain based applications. They currently process more transactions per day than all other blockchains, including Ethereum. Larimer knows how to build blockchain-based software that meets the user experience expectations of consumers. 
Larimer is bringing many of the innovations he pioneered in Bitshares and Steem to EOS. Although these features are not new ideas, they’ve never been implemented natively in a generalizable smart contract platform before. Let’s discuss three of them: 
Most importantly, EOS transactions will be free for users. This is a massive breakthrough, enabling consumers to interact with the EOS blockchains dozens of times per day without worrying about paying fees. Consider a social media application in which you had to pay a fee for every picture, like, and comment. Or a game where you have to pay a fee for every move you make. Consumers would never adopt such a system. 
EOS software also provides protocol-layer account recovery. The importance of this cannot be overstated. Many consumers are hesitant to purchase and hold large amounts of cryptoassets because they’re afraid of “what if I lose my password?” Although it’s possible to create backup-systems in Bitcoin and Ethereum using various multi-signature schemes, this process is clunky, unclear, and complex. On the other hand, EOS will provide native protocol-layer account recovery, ensuring that consumers can recover their funds even if they lose their password. 
Lastly, EOS provides protocol-layer human-readable addresses. Unlike Bitcoin or Ethereum, in which users interact with one another using long strings of random letters and numbers, EOS will allow users to establish human-readable, persistent cross-application identity natively. This is what an ETH address looks like: 0xdbd838ae88d71bbd465d8f7ddf6b0c9156002d7e. This is what an EOS address looks like: @KyleSamani. 
Again, both Bitcoin and Ethereum provide ways to try to create human-readable account names on top of their respective protocols, but neither has made this particularly easy for consumers. Block.one has prioritized making EOS easy to use out of the box. 
This focus on usability will help expand the user base for EOS and makes this a compelling platform for developers to build on. 
The Bull Case: Go-To-Market Focus 
The Block.one team is, by far, the most well-capitalized team in crypto. It’s been estimated that they’ve raised over $2B through their ICO. 
They’re aggressively investing that capital to catalyze the growth of the EOS ecosystem. Notably, Block.one has committed $1B to supporting ecosystem funds who commit to invest in EOS-based projects. 
Additionally, Block.one is hiring senior business executives, forging partnerships with universities to establish EOS development courses, and is building out global developer-relations and government affairs teams. 
Unlike many teams in crypto who tend to believe “if you build it, they will come,” the Block.one team is adopting many of the best go-to-market practices from traditional non-crypto businesses. They do not assume “if you build it, they will come,” and instead they’re actively and deliberately investing in their growth. Although many crypto evangelists scoff at the idea of raising massive amounts of capital to fund growth, we find this to be a refreshing and unique approach among a sea of crypto teams who have little prior go-to-market experience.