
On Sunday, Matthew Mellon flew in a private jet to Cancun, Mexico, intending to check into a rehabilitation clinic. But the 54-year-old banking heir, who had been battling an addiction to opioid pills, never made it to the treatment facility.
“He never checked in,” says Alberto Sola, medical director of Clear Sky Recovery, a rehab clinic in Cancun. “He was supposed to check in to the clinic on Monday morning. Then Monday morning they told us he had died.”
 
  
   
  Ethan Pines 
  
  
   
    
    Matthew Mellon 
    
   
  

Mellon, who had faced substance abuse issues for decades, had decided to seek an experimental treatment in Mexico earlier this year, attracted to therapies with hallucinatory properties that are illegal in the United States. Clear Sky Recovery clinic specializes in ibogaine therapy, a plant-based medicine with psychedelic properties that’s derived from a West African tree. Clear Sky advertises itself as “the world’s foremost experts in medically-based ibogaine treatment.” Sola declined to comment on the cause of Mellon’s death, but according to one report he was also experimenting with ayahuasca, a hallucinogenic drink, and died from a heart attack after taking it.
 
 
In addition to leaving behind three children, Mellon’s death raises many unanswered questions, including what will happen to the estimated $500 million of XRP digital currency he owned. Mellon’s XRP had been worth well over $1 billion earlier in 2018 and he told Forbes in March he had been adding to the position as the price of the cryptocurrency plunged.
XRP is the digital currency of financial payments company Ripple and Mellon had acquired a large amount of it, mostly from an initial investment of about $2 million, prior to the boom in cryptocurrencies. Mellon said he kept the digital keys to his XRP locked in cold storage in other people’s names at various locations around the U.S.

He began the year in Los Angeles with great promise and a flurry of activity. Late last year, Mellon, who lived in New York, searched online for the most expensive rental house in Los Angeles and booked a futuristic looking home in the Hollywood Hills for $150,000 a month. With a massive cryptocurrency fortune and fearing for his security, Mellon got an armored car that resembled a tank and added a security detail while maintaining an active social schedule.
He reportedly spent a lot of time with Kick Kennedy, daughter of Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. In late March, Mellon told a Forbes reporter, he dined with President Donald Trump.
“I shared with him that he should become blockchain friendly if he wants the next Millennial vote,” Mellon told Forbes in late March.