
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    PARIS, FRANCE - FEBRUARY 16: In this photo illustration, a visual representation of digital cryptocurrencies, Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethernum, Dash, Monero and Litecoin is displayed on February 16, 2018 in Paris, France. Digital cryptocurrencies have seen unprecedented growth in 2017, despite remaining extremely volatile. (Photo Illustration by Chesnot/Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
March 2018 has been a wild month for the global cryptocurrency community. 
Here's a list of the news that topped headlines in March 2018. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Bill Gates, billionaire and co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, gestures as he speaks during a Bloomberg Television interview on day two of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, on Wednesday, Jan. 24, 2018. World leaders, influential executives, bankers and policy makers attend the 48th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos from Jan. 23 - 26. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
    
   
  
 
1. Bill Gates says cryptocurrencies cause deaths 
During an AMA on Reddit, the Microsoft founder expressed his thoughts on the impact of anonymity in digital currencies: 
 
  
 
 The main feature of crypto-currencies is their anonymity. I don't think this is a good thing. The government's ability to find money laundering and tax evasion and terrorist funding is a good thing.... Right now, crypto-currencies are used for buying fentanyl and other drugs so it is a rare technology that has caused deaths in a fairly direct way. I think the speculative wave around ICOs and crypto-currencies is super risky for those who go long. 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Saul Pannell, senior managing director and equity portfolio manager at Wellington Management Co. LLP, walks the grounds after the morning session of the Allen & Co. Media and Technology Conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, U.S., on Wednesday, July 6, 2016. Billionaires, chief executive officers, and leaders from the technology, media, and finance industries gather this week at the Idaho mountain resort conference hosted by investment banking firm Allen & Co. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg 
    
   
  
 
 
2. Wellington Management Co. joins the crypto conversation 
In a recent report, the Boston-based, $1 trillion firm expressed interest in including cryptocurrencies in some portfolios, writing: 
 
 Various Wellington teams are already positioning portfolios to take advantage of mining and blockchain implementations by, for example, investing in select chipmakers making components” for tracking and creating digital coins, the report said, without naming specific stocks. 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    BEVERLY HILLS, CA - DECEMBER 09: Olympic Speed Skater Apolo Ohno attends the 16th annual Unforgettable Gala at The Beverly Hilton Hotel on December 9, 2017 in Beverly Hills, California. (Photo by Paul Archuleta/FilmMagic) 
    
   
  
 
3. Olympic gold medalist Apolo Anton Ohno talks new blockchain-based cryptocurrency effort 
As if snagging 8 medals across the 2002, 2006, and 2010 Olympics weren't enough, Ohno is now focusing on a new blockchain venture called HybridBlock, which touts itself as an "all-in-one cryptocurrency trading ecosystem." HybridBlock will launch its ICO in April. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
4. Berkeley to Launch An "Initial Community Offering" to fund affordable housing 
The city of Berkeley announced its ICO—an "Initial Community Offering”—in hopes of addressing systemic homelessness. The ICO is slated to launch in May. Berkeley City Council Member Ben Bartlett explained that the idea emerged after President Donald Trump signed the tax bill into law late last year: 
 
 We [decided] to explore new forms of finance in response to the cuts from DC and corporate tax cuts that took away our ability to fund affordable housing. There are more than one-thousand homeless people living in Berkeley, which is projected to increase by a factor of five in the coming years. Many cities, just like Berkeley, are under a funding assault – we have to think outside of the box in order to solve this problem. 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
5. Craig Wright is being sued after alleged plot to steal billions of dollars of Bitcoin 
The infamous Australian who claims to be Satoshi Nakamoto was dealt a $10 billion lawsuit from Ira Kleiman, brother of Wright's ex-colleague (deceased) David Kleiman, claiming Wright “forged a series of contracts that purported to transfer Dave’s assets to Craig and/or companies controlled by him. Craig backdated these contracts and forged Dave’s signature on them.” 
 
 The $10 Billion lawsuit against Craig Wright claims Wright used a computer-generated font called Otto to forge Dave Kleiman's signature and acquire hundreds of thousands of bitcoins. pic.twitter.com/vFA6uowMZa 
 — Kyle Torpey (@kyletorpey) February 26, 2018 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Jay Clayton, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), listens to a question during an interview at the Securities Industry And Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) annual meting in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Tuesday, Oct. 24, 2017. Clayton said the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) are working together on Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) and swaps rules. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
    
   
  
 
6. SEC sets its sights on crypto hedge funds 
Inside sources claim that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is now targeting hedge funds that have sprung up in the past few years to invest and trade cryptocurrencies, including ICOs and token sales. The body recently sent requests for information from a number of crypto hedge funds probing their compliance and their pricing of digital investments. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
7. Wyoming defines 'Utility Tokens' as new asset class 
Amid news of federal regulation via the SEC and CFTC, the Wyoming legislature passed five bills into law regarding cryptocurrency and blockchain technology. Specifically, the "Utility Token Bill" (Wyoming House Bill 70), which was signed into law March 7, makes Wyoming unique among any state in the world, defining utility tokens as a completely new asset class.