
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Mark Zuckerberg, CEO and founder of Facebook, testifies during a U.S. House Committee on Energy and Commerce hearing about Facebook on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, April 11, 2018. (Photo credit: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images). 
    
   
  
 
Technologies such as Blockchain and the distributed ledger are enabling further decentralization and distribution of organizations. Both the workforce and consumers are now keen to move away from the centralized and hierarchical structures towards transparent and inclusive approaches, which give people more choice and control on how to get things done. 
Recent concerns regarding centralized organizations like Facebook, Apple and Google (now Alphabet, Inc.), that along with Amazon and Netflix form the so-called FANGs. 
An acronym for these high-performing technology stocks, the FANGs have accounted for some spectacular investor returns over the past year (notwithstanding the weakness lately in Facebook’s stock price), as well as representing a hefty percentage of the overall market capitalization of the U.S stock market. 
The stock price of each FANG company increased by more than 30% last year, which  provided a shot in the arm the S&P 500 and helped it record a near 20% gain. That said, the Price-to-Earnings (P/E) ratios of the FANG stocks were looking a wee bit frothy as of late this March. 
 
  
While Amazon.com traded at a P/E of 327, Netflix was on a P/E of 210 at late last month. And, Facebook and Google-parent Alphabet, who have been linked with privacy concerns, were trading at valuations near 52-week lows. 
These tech behemoths have made a number of users distrustful of the power that they now yield. And, rightly so given what has transpired with the Cambridge Analytica debacle and culling data from around 50 million Facebook users. 
 
Data Collection Issues 
Issues such as the mass data collection they - the FANGs - perform have caused privacy and data ownership advocacies to emerge. As some pundits contend, centralized and hierarchical corporate structures are also viewed as less agile for today’s business environment and raise questions as to many organizations’ capability to adapt. 
Blockchain and decentralized services now challenge these centralized authorities. And, their endeavors are finding support from an increasingly discerning market. 
On the more progressive end, decentralized autonomous organizations, or DAOs for short, have also figured in the discussion of organizational structures. For example, initiatives in the shape of Dash, Digix, Slock.it, and The DAO have been met with varying degrees of success. Upcoming efforts like DAOstack,  which is described as a “decentralized framework for decentralized organizations” and based in Israel, is seeking to seek to lower the barriers to founding DAOs. 
But the $64 million question remains: Is decentralization really the future of organizations or just a fancy buzz word that is rolled out by pundits? 
Blockchain and Business Transformation  
As a backdrop, new research published just this April from Intrinsic Insights, which was commissioned by BTL Group, has revealed that after reduced costs, the main benefits of blockchain technology are greater data security and protection against cyber threats. 
Nearly 9 in 10 (87%) of technology professionals from these findings believed that blockchain technology will be as transformative for business as the Internet has been. 
This research also revealed that: 
 
 Privacy of data is the highest priority amongst people in IT currently; 
 Two-thirds of respondents responding have trialled or are using blockchain technology; and, 
 And, nearly half of respondents who have not worked with blockchain tech yet will do so in next two years. 
 
Rules Set in Code 
Corruption and greed can certainly influence human decision makers. And, among the draws of the blockchain and decentralized approaches are mechanisms that can mitigate potential abuses of centralized systems. 
DAOs are run according to the rules established through blockchain smart contracts. They use the decentralized and transparent nature of blockchain to function. Changes to the governing rules are achieved through consensus of peers, rather than through decisions of an individual or a small group that exerts influential authority. 
Decisions are made through the votes of token holders. There are no boards of directors, C-level executives and management teams. Should changes need to be made to the rules themselves, decisions are made through consensus. And, all transactions are recorded transparently and immutably on the blockchain - aka distributed ledger technology (DLT). 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Blockchain concept design with data flying over a mobile device. (Image: Shutterstock). 
    
   
  
 
Hits and Misses 
Attempts at establishing DAOs have already been made. As with many pioneering efforts, they have different stories to tell. Dash, for instance, has risen to be among the top cryptocurrencies, ranking in the top 15 with a market capitalization of around $2.5 billion of late. 
The project is maintained by the community itself, which operates as a DAO. Meanwhile, Digix, a blockchain ecosystem that has interests in digital marketplaces, stablecoins and finance services, is also maintained by its DAO. 
Slock.it, which has successfully offered smart locks tied to the blockchain, is actually the precursor to The DAO. After a successful crowdfund, its team set its sights on spinning off a decentralized venture capital fund that became The DAO. 
Unfortunately, The DAO met quite an unfavorable end. An error in The DAO’s smart contract code enabled a hacker to siphon peer contributions amounting to $50 million in Ether tokens. It is even doubly unlucky that The DAO used such a name. It is now hard to dissociate the ill-fated organization’s name from the innocent acronym. 
All of this leads to the rather critical question as to how much or to what extent people will be willing to let technology influence organizational dynamics. Moreover, is the world ready to let computer code define the way organizations are shaped and run? 
Frameworks Needed 
Despite the setback with The DAO, the idea behind DAOs more broadly shows much promise, the pundits argue. Advancements in blockchain technology are bringing more interest in DAOs. However, there is clearly a need for frameworks to enable the creation of DAOs with minimal technical barriers. Frameworks like DAOstack could help this cause, it has been suggested by tech protagonists. 
DAOstack envisions itself as an “operating system” that provides DAOs with a stable platform and key functionalities to build and grow their organizations. It features an Arc framework that contains essential templates and modules for DAO creation. 
Arc includes governance systems and smart contracts, which organizations can use or modify to suit their goals. Aside from Arc, the project also includes a user-friendly interface called Alchemy and data integrity and ecosystem maintenance mechanisms collectively dubbed ArcHives. It sounds bold and funky, but the litmuss test surely rests on whether the initiative can excecute on its plan? 
The pioneer leading DAOstack believes that we are standing at the dawn of a new era and a turning point in society. It reminds me of the earth's wobble, Milankovitch cycles and entering a new age, but that's another story. 
Matan Field, CEO and co-founder of DAOstack, commenting recently said: “With DAOstack, thousands of open-source creators can jointly produce decentralized applications (DApps), while distributing individual ownership in the product to contributors of value.” 
He added: “Crowd curators can cooperatively own and manage multi-valued ranking systems to compete with Yelp, TripAdvisor, or YouTube. And autonomous networks can run their collective investment or insurance fund. We believe DAOs will radically change the way people organize, from start-ups to corporations, to non-profits and even nation states.” 
Key to the DAOstack is its voting system where contributors can submit proposals on which peers can vote within a set time limit. Each voting round has a "Quiet Ending" that prevents so-called finalization attacks. Proposals are also efficiently queued to prevent the system from being overloaded and are also ranked to establish priorities. 
The availability of such a comprehensive, robust and well-supported framework would be critical to encourage establishment of more DAOs. 
To make this possible, DAOstack is set to hold a token sale starting April 24, 2018, for its GEN tokens. These tokens are to be used as currency in the module marketplace. Anyone creating a DAO on the Arc framework also needs to stake GEN tokens. (Note: Investing in cryptocoins or tokens is highly speculative and the market is largely unregulated. Anyone considering it should be prepared to lose their entire investment).  
The Future? 
Decentralized services are now getting renewed attention due to the growing concern regarding the possible abuses of centralized companies. DAOs could become the next step in the evolution of organizational structures, especially since technology has already enabled global cooperation and collaboration through digital platforms. 
“DAOs are a new form of association, based on crypto-economic incentive at the individual level that generate large scale cooperation at the collective behavior - akin to blockchain itself but around any general goal/action,” argued Field, who holds a PhD in theoretical and mathematical physics from the Weizmann Institute of Science, which is located in Rehovot, just south of Tel Aviv. 
The architect behind DAOstack, he added: “They combine the effectiveness, adaptivity and scalability of free markets with the alignment and coherence of start-ups.” 
Barriers To Formation 
What DAOs need though are lower barriers to formation and the emergence of frameworks such as turnkey solutions is essential to this. The wider availability of frameworks, resources and mechanisms would help DAOs avoid the too pitfalls encountered by previous attempts and help them focus more on solving key problems across industries. 
Developments in other technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) even create the possibility of unprecedented automation when applied to DAOs. 
The conditions now appear primed for DAOs to be successful this time around. Whether or not decentralization becomes core to organizational dynamics remains to be seen. But clearly the stage seems set for a future where DAOs could matter given all that is happening today with the backdrop of fintech and digital disruption. 
To read more on DAOstack and the operating​ system​ ​for​ ​DAOs, a 33-page Whitepaper on the project and concept can be read via this link.