
Darknet. It sounds scary and it kind of is. This shadowy and obscure corner of the internet is often used by ordinary citizens and whistleblowers to protect their privacy rights. However, the privacy it affords is also being put to more sinister uses, especially as a platform for illegal activities by criminals involved in illicit drug and arms trafficking. Every year, illegal trafficking in small arms and light weapons is estimated to be worth somewhere in the region of $1.7 to $3.5 billion, equivalent to around 10 to 20 percent of the legal arms trade. Increasingly, all sorts of guns are finding their way onto the darknet from pistols to Kalashnikovs. Last year, a Global Financial Integrity study estimated the average price for the latter on the darknet is in the $2,800 to $3,600 range.  
Another study from the RAND Corporation analyzed the size and scope of the firearms trade on cryptomarkets. It found that the darknet is indeed increasing the availability of firearms for similar prices as those available on the regular black market out on the streets. It also found that the United States is the most common source country for arms sales on the darknet, accounting for just under 60 percent of listings analyzed in 2017. Despite that, Europe as a whole actually represents the largest darknet market for firearms with revenues about five times higher than the United States. On a country by country basis, Denmark had the second highest share of darknet firearm vendors last year at 12.98 percent while Germany comes third with 5.31 percent. 
Fears are growing that the darknet could become the platform of choice for criminal gangs or terrorists seeking to obtain firearms and ammunition. Due to the anonymity it provides, the darknet is presenting a new and extremely difficult challenge for governments and law enforcement agencies across the globe. The RAND report recommends the adaptation of new intervention strategies, the development of specialist skills and the introduction of proper regulatory frameworks to clamp down on this new and obscure platform for selling illegal firearms. 
*Click below to enlarge (charted by Statista) 
 
  
   
  Statista  
  
  
   
    
    Worldwide distribution of darknet firearm vendors by county in 2017. 
    
   
  
 
 
  
 