

Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform has recently introduced its Blockchain framework for Ethereum (ETH) and Hyperledger Fabric allowing users to build and manage their own Blockchain-powered decentralized applications (DApps), AWS announced in a blog post Thursday, April 19.
According to the statement, users will be able to create their own Blockchain applications via the AWS CloudFormation Templates tool to avoid the time-consuming manual setup of their Blockchain network.
Despite last year’s rumors that AWS was not planning to launch Blockchain-related services, the company announced a partnership with R3 DLT consortium on Dec. 6, 2017, which led the company’s Corda platform to become the first Blockchain solution on AWS. Corda is designed to allow users to use DApps on the AWS platform to build new apps directly.
Founded in 2015, the Linux Foundation's Hyperledger Blockchain tech firm released its first production Blockchain code, Fabric 1.0 in July 2017. Hyperledger DLT products have become widespread among companies incorporating Blockchain solutions with platforms to improve their service.
One of the latest Hyperledger deployments is the Chinese Huawei Blockchain-as-a-Service (BaaS) tool implemented on Huawei’s Blockchain Cloud Service, announced Tuesday, April 17. On April 9, Cointelegraph reported that IBM Switzerland and Proxeus introduced a faster and more effective way for Swiss startup registration on Blockchain by implementing Hyperledger Blockchain and smart contracts.
Ethereum network, launched in 2014 by Vitalik Buterin, has become one of the most popular
Blockchain bases for building DApps among developers. Yesterday, April 19, NASA revealed it is developing an autonomous spacecraft that could make decisions using Ethereum Blockchain technology without human intervention.
Earlier this month, Chile’s national energy commission announced the launch of an Ethereum Blockchain record system for the nation’s energy sector to provide security, accuracy, transparency, and accessibility of data.


