
 
  
   
  Shutterstock 
  
  
   
    
     
    
   
  

The initial coin offering (ICO) party seems to be winding down, or at least transitioning from a college blowout to a wine-and-cheese gathering. The SEC recently charged the founders of a celebrity-endorsed ICO, Centra, with fraud. Telegram may call off its public token sale after raising nearly $2 billion in private funding. And some major cryptocurrency investors are advising against ICOs.
“The vast majority of projects I’m seeing don’t need to be an ICO at all,” says Linda Xie, cofounder of San Francisco-based investment management company Scalar Capital. “There are legitimate projects that do token sales, but they’re in the small minority.” 
If Xie determines a crypto platform doesn’t need a token to work properly, she recommends equity funding—the traditional venture capital approach. She admits that this model violates the financial-inclusion ethos of crypto. “But you can’t ignore that there is existing regulation, and there needs to be compliance,” she says. “I think the ICO is a great model itself, but it has been abused, and there is a lot of regulatory uncertainty right now.”
 
 
Chris Burniske, co-author of the book “Cryptoassets” and partner at venture firm Placeholder, expressed a similar sentiment recently on Laura Shin’s “Unconfirmed” podcast. “We are actively steering people away from ICOs, at least ICOs as they largely existed in 2017,” he said. “I think the regulatory environment alone raises a lot of red flags, and I think that it’s pretty clear any asset that is sold pre-network-utility is going to be a security.” Anything that the SEC deems a security must comply with rules like Regulation D, which states that a company doesn’t have to register a product with the SEC if it only sells to accredited investors, or people with either a net worth over $1 million or annual income exceeding $200,000.
ICOs raked in $1.2 billion in March, about one-quarter less than their February total, according to Token Report. That’s no small sum, but other market signals point to a cooling-off. VC firms are reportedly seeking veto power over future token sales when they invest in crypto startups. 

Arianna Simpson, managing director of crypto investment firm Autonomous Partners, hasn’t discouraged teams from doing ICOs. But she takes issue with the huge amounts of money that some projects have raised. Some have collected hundreds of millions or more than $1 billion in token sales, like Filecoin, Tezos and EOSIO. 
“Raised capital should grow over time as the company progresses, rather than being handed over on day one,” she says. “Companies raising massive amounts will be wishing they took a more conservative path once the SEC hammer starts coming down.” 