
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    A monitor displays Citigroup Inc. signage on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., on Thursday, March 29, 2018. U.S. stocks climbed as markets moved toward the end of a tumultuous quarter on a high note. Equities in Europe also rose following a mixed session in Asia. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg 
    
   
  
 
Every dollar counts when it comes to retirement savings. So, why not provide a mechanism to younger investors that provides for transparency, control and smart investment decisions in the long run? That mechanism, is blockchain. 
As of July 2017, the National Retirement Risk Index measured that more than half of working-age households were at risk of being unable to maintain their current standard of living in retirement. 
But, what’s more troubling is that individuals have very little control over or access to their retirement plans, until retirement. For the Millennial generation, it’s important for young investors to be cognizant of their portfolio, understanding all the accounts they have, and the risk factors they have in terms of being able to meet their retirement or investment goals. But, how do they go about doing this? 
 
  
Understanding Your Holistic Portfolio  
The issue investors face when it comes to their retirement portfolios, or conglomerate of portfolios for that matter start with the very structure of how they are set up. With a traditional retirement plan, there is a lack of engagement and inability to control the structure of how the plan is set up. Despite the good intention to ensure that investors don’t “meddle” with their portfolios too early in their career, it’s made so that there really isn’t a lot of wiggle room or action that an investor can take in terms of ensuring they are meeting their realistic retirement goals. 
In today’s digital age, younger investors as well as experienced investors, are experiencing frequent lifestyle changes. This on its face is a vital reason that these portfolios should be more transparent and available to the individual, as it cannot adapt to the current lifestyle changes that suddenly come about. This sets the individual down a path of no return, or very high-stress levels in the future. 
 
On the other hand, looking at a holistic portfolio construction, it’s all about approaching investments as a whole, not in parts. Raphael Vantroost, CEO of Auctus, believes that proper retirement or goal-based saving, requires this holistic approach, as all factors need to be considered. 
Vantroost emphasized the importance of searching for platforms or mechanisms that would allow for your portfolio to be accumulated into one single location, where you are able to see all the numbers, figures, and potential risk factors, so you understand your own lifestyle. 
“While operating on a simple scale, so we are led to believe, traditional retirement savings often doesn’t give this aggregate view, which leaves the investor/saver, with a multiple of portfolios and investment strategies that might even be conflicting with one another, or in a worst case scenario, not properly optimized,” said Vantroost. 
What Can The Blockchain Do For Your Retirement Portfolio? 
First and foremost, by bringing your portfolio onto the blockchain, you know the information is going to be encrypted and well-guarded. By aggregating all your portfolio’s, whether they are IRA’s, 401(k)’s, or equity and bond investments, it is beneficial to have a platform that is able to lay out all the numbers and figures for the investor, which gives he or she a better understanding of their long-term financial future. 
Secondly, it’s decentralized. This provides for transparency, bringing the individual closer to understanding the structure of their own funds. Additionally, by removing the access barrier as between the account and the individual, this would in turn provide for more intelligent planning each day. Think about it, how convenient is it that Millennials are able to pull their credit score up by simply downloading a mobile app like Credit Karma or going to FreeCreditScore.com, which allows them to see an aggregated number of factors that play into their score? As a young investor myself, it’s been tremendously beneficial, as I structure the majority of my financial decisions based on the risk factors I’m aware of, because I’m able to see that information presented to me, all in one location. 
Third, we’re talking about risk management. If a platform, similar to Auctus, could offer tailored analytics based on the type of portfolio the investor has set up, how valuable would that be in terms of knowing whether or not you have the right kind of structure in the first place? The ability for this space to provide risk/return tests, and allowing the investor to make informed decisions, would only increase the knowledge and financial independence all Millennials are searching for, hopefully. 
Lastly, the blockchain would provide a digital history of your portfolio. Every transaction, every decision, every allocation of an asset. There’s very little chance of manipulation or head-rubbing gestures to figure out what the hell happened during the lifetime of the portfolio. It’s all there. On the blockchain. 
The cryptocurrency space via the blockchain, has opened up a new venue that allows for young investors to have a second look at technology they are interested in, and provide them with avenues in which to invest in their future. The clock is ticking.