
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
While cryptocurrency might not appeal to the masses, Millennials seem to favor Bitcoin, Ethereum and other digital currencies.  A new report released by Finder.com found that Millennials (between the ages of 22 and 37) had a 17% cryptocurrency ownership rate out of the 2,001 American adults surveyed. Gen X had a 9% rate and Baby Boomers were a bit over 2%. 
Yet considering the risks involved with owning cryptocurrencies, it’s no surprise that Millennials are one of the largest age groups to invest in crypto. The idea of being in control of one’s money without having to go through a bank to gain access to funds seems to appeal to the younger generation in particular, regardless of risk factors. 
This notion has become even more evident with the recent news that a number of college students are using money from their student financial aid to buy Bitcoin and other digital currencies. One-fifth of the 1,000 students polled by The Student Loan Report admitted to using money set aside for living expenses to invest in cryptocurrencies.  
 
  
As the cryptocurrency craze continues, it seems as if Millennials will do anything to get their hands on various forms of digital currencies. Interestingly enough though, one of the main reasons Millennials are investing in cryptocurrencies is to save for retirement funds. 
Crypto For The Long Term 
Cryptocurrencies being used by Millennials to save for the future could be quite revolutionary if the concept catches on. Recent findings from the National Institute on Retirement Security (NIRS) show that 95% of American Millennials are not properly saving for their future. Moreover, the study also found that two-thirds (66.2%) of working Millennials have nothing at all saved for retirement. Yet as more Millennials invest in cryptocurrencies, new opportunities for putting crypto assets toward a 401(k) or IRA are becoming appealing and even plausible. 
 
Jeremy Gardner, managing partner at Ausum Ventures, is 26-years-old and has been investing in cryptocurrencies for about five years. Gardner is one of the many Millennials who strongly believes in crypto assets. 
 
 As a millennial, I personally put much greater faith in scarce digital assets that are determined by math and auditable code, rather than a group of bankers at the Federal Reserve. This is because dollars depreciate in value, while crypto assets historically have appreciated, and will continue to exponentially, should they be successful. That being said, I’ve put away savings for my unborn children’s education and my retirement, Gardner told me. 
 
And while the risky nature of the cryptocurrency market might not appeal to some, Millennials seem to be finding major opportunities in the risks involved. 
Parul Gujral, cofounder and CEO at Snowball, believes the volatile nature of cryptocurrencies could help boost his retirement fund greatly. 