
Whether it’s Scotch, bourbon, Irish whiskey, or Japanese, anyone following the whiskey industry knows that prices are rising. The rarer the bottle the less likely it is to be consumed. Bottles are shelved instead and left to sit for years until a decent profit can be made on the secondary market. Another method of whiskey investment I’ve covered is buying your very own cask from a distillery. As the whiskey market continues to grow, investment methods are evolving alongside it, continuously adapting as consumers of fine whiskey search far and wide for the best deals. Now, whisky has entered the cryptocurrency market, connecting blockchain technology with the physical asset of whisky. 
 
  
   
  Photo: CaskCoin 
  
  
   
    
    CaskCoin logo 
    
   
  
 
CASKCOIN 
Sure, Ethereum and Litecoin are great, but CaskCoin is backed by Scotch whisky, so I'm sold. The cryptocurrency market can be hard to understand, so let’s keep it simple. CaskCoin’s portfolio, estimated at £40 million, features casks from some of the most popular Scotch whisky distilleries in the world. These include giants like the Macallan, Dalmore, Bowmore, and Glenlivet distilleries. The casks are between 20 and 50 years old and are stored in bonded warehouses in Scotland. Each coin purchased gives the buyer a share of every cask in the CaskCoin repertoire. The more coins you buy, the more whisky you own. Speaking to CaskCoin CFO, Barry Millar, he touches on the three “pillars” of the whisky-based coin. First is complete traceability, brought forth in the blockchain technology backing the coin. Then comes provenance, which is evident in the unique casks and their origins, tied to the Scotch whisky industry. Lastly, sharing intelligence. CaskCoin owners are given a vote on when the casks are to be bottled and sold. 
‘The idea of a new cryptocurrency pinned to maturing Scotch Whisky stocks was the result of brainstorming sessions with CaskCoin founder, Ricky Christie, where we tackled the greatest challenge that Scotch Whisky distillers have to overcome - the traditional financing of maturing whisky stocks,’ says Millar. ‘We decided that CaskCoin holders should be able to participate on this journey and the value to them would mirror that of the Scotch whisky stock - which should, in turn, equate to more stability as a cryptocurrency.’ 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
While cryptocurrencies are hard to predict, the increase in demand for whisky, lack of supply of aged stock, and continued ageing (improving product) means the coin will, most likely, continue to rise in value. The coin launched on March 12th and the first week has seen subscriptions come in ‘thick and fast’, according to Millar. Buyers must be serious, as the minimum buy-in is £30,000, purchasable using BitCoin or Ether. A large 5.2 million ERC-20 tokens are available, at a cost of £8.15 each. The company is looking to raise £40 million for its Initial Coin Offering and, following this, the coin will be traded publicly. With the press release translated into Russian and Chinese, CaskCoin is going global from its base in Scotland. Sadly, the initial launch won’t include the US, as the company hopes to enter the country dynamically later in 2018, with the sole focus of shining in the hugely competitive US market. Perhaps, the most exciting part of CaskCoin is that it doesn’t end with the company’s current portfolio. The current stock will be bottled and sold, and the money reinvested in other whiskies. For those who want to be part of the whisky investment movement but don’t want the hassle of buying and selling bottles, this option seems like the way to go. 
 
‘CaskCoin's foundation will be self-perpetuating when casks will be bottled and sold, the proceeds will be invested in more exciting Scotch whiskies, growing the value and volume of the fund - which will also be reflected in the future value of CaskCoin,’ says Ricky Christie, CaskCoin’s founder. ‘Further acquisitions and distilling are also very much on the radar.’ 
Let's be clear - the cryptocurrency market is volatile. This can be seen through the constant rise and fall of some of the most popular coins, like Ethereum, Litecoin and, of course, BitCoin. December 2017 saw BitCoin, the biggest coin, reach an all-time high, with one coin valued at around $20,000. However, the value has since dropped dramatically to around $10,000. As with all other cryptocurrencies, there is no guarantee that CaskCoin's value will rise. All we can do is look at the whisky and cryptocurrency markets and the growth they've shown over the years. Above all else, this is an investment that should be centred around passion and a huge love for whiskey.