
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
We live in a world where the important information about our lives – or as I call it, your “life and legacy” – is a collection of scattered hard copy documents, files tucked away in emails or disparate folders on long forgotten hard drives, or passwords preserved in our mind. Think about all the important stuff your family would need to find if you were no longer around: passwords, documents such as wills, financial documents, and wishes you need passed down to your loved ones. 
Where do you keep it all? 
 When doing your tax planning this season, why not extend your efforts to encompass life and legacy planning? Tax season is actually the perfect time to begin. Since we’re all legally obligated to file, and you’re already digging through all your files and papers, why not use it as an opportunity to gather and store this information in a secure, digital lockbox? 
Just knowing where last year’s tax return is stored is benefit enough. 
So, this tax season, take advantage of the fact that you’re forced to unearth a range of information and documents. Below are a few ways to use tax season as a starting point for developing your life and legacy plan. 
 
  
Tax Task: Accounting for your dependents 
Life & Legacy Equivalent: Your dependents, or adult children who once were dependents, play an important part in your life. These are the people who will most likely be the beneficiaries of your investment accounts, insurance policies, trusts, and may eventually serve as the executor of your estate. If you have children under 18, or care for a special needs adult, and you haven’t named a guardian, then you need to make sure to do it as soon as possible. If something happened to you, you need to make sure your dependents are taken care of. 
Now is also the perfect time to review beneficiaries across all your accounts -- especially if you experienced any big events in the past year like marriage or divorce -- and make sure they’re all up-to-date and you’re still happy with your decisions. 
 
Tax Task: Organizing home costs, property taxes, and energy efficient upgrades 
Life & Legacy Equivalent: While you may know exactly how your home is owned and runs, does your family? Think about those ownership details (where’s the deed or lease?), insurance info in the event of an accident, how the utilities get paid (are they on autopay tied to a credit card or checking account?), who you need to call if a pipe bursts, how to set the thermostat? 
Running a home can be a full-time job, and even if the duties are split among household members, it’s still vital to jot down this information in a life and legacy plan so your home doesn’t fall into chaos in the event something were to happen to you. 
Tax Task: Manage vehicle information and usage (example: deducting a percentage for work) 
Life & Legacy Equivalent: The same way you need to account for your home, you need to do the same for all your cars, trucks, boats, and other vehicles. This includes organizing the ownership details (owned or leased?), insurance details, care instructions, and where you get it serviced. 
Tax Task: Report interest earned on bank and investment accounts 
Life & Legacy Equivalent:  Organizing all of your financial accounts and assets for your family is a must. While investment accounts require the bulk of the work around tax time, don’t forget your savings, checking, retirement, and even cryptocurrency (if you have it). Put together a financial inventory, how you access these accounts, and who should take control of them in the event of an emergency. If you haven’t named a power of attorney, now is the ideal time to do it.