
 
            
            
                              
                              
              
              
              
                Finance  
              
              
                                
                    
                       
                      
                        4 mins ago    |
                          By Avi Mizrahi -   |
                          191                                                                    
                      
                        Robinhood App Expands Cryptocurrency Trading to Two More US States                                              
                    
                                      
                    
                        

            


Almost three months after starting to roll out cryptocurrency trading, Robinhood has expanded the service to another two more American localities. This means that residents of eight US states in total now have access to Robinhood Crypto.
Also Read: This Week in Bitcoin: Bacon War, Mining Trucks and Coinbase Salutes Regulator
Robinhood Crypto Reaches Eight Million More Americans
Robinhood Financial LLC, the Palo Alto-headquartered US stocks brokerage app, has announced that it added another two locations where cryptocurrency trading is now supported for its clients. The company officially announced on Thursday on its twitter page that the service is rolling out to Wisconsin and New Mexico.
Wisconsin is the 20th most populous American state with almost six million residents, and with a population of approximately two million, New Mexico is the 36th most populous state. This means that about eight million more Americans now have access to Robinhood Crypto. The two states are only the seventh and eighth locations in the country where Robinhood’s cryptocurrency trading service is made available. The company also added Colorado in April, after initially launching in California, Massachusetts, Missouri, Montana, and New Hampshire back in February.

Robinhood Crypto is bringing you a new kind of cheddar! Commission-free Bitcoin and Ethereum trading is now rolled out and available to investors in Wisconsin. pic.twitter.com/6llxdYDEwG
— Robinhood (@RobinhoodApp) May 3, 2018

More States Promised Sooner or Later
Besides the few selected states that the company’s cryptocurrency trading service is available, Robinhood also offers market data on a total of sixteen cryptocurrencies including bitcoin, ethereum, bitcoin cash, litecoin, ripple, ethereum classic, zcash, monero, dash, stellar, qtum, bitcoin gold, omisego, neo, lisk and dogecoin. The company is also working on Robinhood Feed, a way to discuss cryptocurrencies, news, and market swings in real-time with other investors on the platform. On Friday, the app’s team has also assured clients that they are “working through regulatory processes to bring Robinhood Crypto trading to more states.”

Robinhood Crypto is coming in hot! Commission-free Bitcoin and Ethereum trading is now rolled out and available to investors in New Mexico. pic.twitter.com/aq12aQwcpO
— Robinhood (@RobinhoodApp) May 3, 2018

What country or American state should Robinhood Crypto reach next? Share your thoughts in the comments section below. 

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Do you agree with us that Bitcoin is the best invention since sliced bread? Thought so. That’s why we are building this online universe revolving around anything and everything Bitcoin. We have a store. And a forum. And a casino, a pool and real-time price statistics.

        