
 
            
            
                              
                              
              
              
              
                News  
              
              
                                
                    
                       
                      
                        1 min ago    |
                          By Jamie Redman -   |
                          2                                                                    
                      
                        74 Beauty Clinics in Japan Now Accept Payments in BTC                                              
                    
                                      
                    
                        

            


This week the Japanese cryptocurrency exchange and payment processor, Bitflyer, announced its partnership with SBC Medical Group the parent company of the popular Shonan Beauty Clinic. The union between both firms means that 74 clinics nationwide will allow patients to settle their bills in cryptocurrency. 
Also read: Markets Update: BTC Price Jumps Over $1000 in Less Than an Hour
Pay for Cosmetic Treatments in Japan with BTC 
The SBC operated Shonan Beauty Clinic chain in Japan now accepts BTC for services by utilizing Bitflyer’s bitcoin payment platform. Shonan clinics offer a wide variety of services like eyelid surgery, liposuction, dermatology, acupuncture, cosmetic dental, rhinoplasty, and breast augmentation. There are 74 Shonan facilities across Japan and some of their surgeons and doctors are very well known. All Shonan clinics will now accept bitcoin for services but there is a cap on how much you can spend. 
Currently, the maximum amount per transaction for bitcoin purchases is 2 million yen ($18,700 USD). Bitflyer states during the partnership that it has introduced BTC to thousands of merchants from various industries and “the number of introduction cases is increasing.” 
“With our partnership with SBC Medical Group and more domestic and overseas businesses — we will contribute to improving convenience for our customers,” Bitflyer’s press statement explains. 
Shonan Beauty Clinic
A Wide Range of Online and Brick and Mortar Businesses Now Accept BTC Through Bitflyer 
Bitflyer has been partnering with a lot of merchants and Japan now has a wide range of stores that accept BTC for payments. The company has signed firm’s like Marui Group’s department stores, the retail chain BIC Camera, the points website Hapitas, and Samantha Thavasa Japan Co. Ltd. The firm also provides insurance for customers that cover failed transactions involving the BTC network.
Shonan Beauty Clinic
Shonan Beauty Clinic in Japan is not the only cosmetic surgery company that accepts BTC as there are a few others worldwide. Other practices that accept bitcoin include Vanity Cosmetic Surgery in Miami, Elite Body Sculpture in Beverly Hills, Artisan Cosmetic Surgery in Ohio, Houston Cosmetic Surgery, and Artful Awakenings Cosmetic Surgery in Melbourne Florida.
What do you think about Bitflyer enabling 74 Shonan Beauty Clinics to accept BTC for payment in Japan? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments below.

Images via Pixabay, Shonan Beauty Clinic, and Bitflyer. 

At news.Bitcoin.com all comments containing links are automatically held up for moderation in the Disqus system. That means an editor has to take a look at the comment to approve it. This is due to the many, repetitive, spam and scam links people post under our articles. We do not censor any comment content based on politics or personal opinions. So, please be patient. Your comment will be published.

        