
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
In a blog post published today, Lightning Labs announced the beta release of their highly-anticipated Lightning Network Daemon (LND), which is a developer-friendly software client used to access Bitcoin’s Lightning Network. The Lightning Network has long been viewed as a tremendous breakthrough in terms of enabling faster, cheaper payments on top of the base Bitcoin blockchain and helping the cryptocurrency scale to many millions of new users in the coming years (see this article explaining why the Lightning Network is important and how it may affect the altcoin market). 
Today’s release from Lightning Labs comes after more than a year of extensive testing from thousands of developers and other volunteers around the world. There are also other implementations of the Lightning Network in development; however, LND is the first one to see a beta release. All major Lightning Network implementations are intended to be compatible with each other. 
 
  
 
In addition to the release of the beta version of LND, Lightning Labs also announced seed financing from some of the biggest names in cryptocurrency and tech. Some of the most notable investors in Lightning Labs now include Square and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, former PayPal COO David Sacks and Robinhood co-founder Vlad Tenev. 
 
  
Litecoin creator Charlie Lee participated in the recent seed financing round as well. In addition to Bitcoin, the LND beta has also launched with support for Litecoin. 
This is the Beginning of the Lightning Network 
Although Lightning Network nodes already exist on Bitcoin’s mainnet, those who are building wallets and other Lightning applications see this as the true beginning of the layer-two payments network. 
 
“This release is a step forward for the network itself,” said Jack Mallers, who is developing a user-friendly Lightning wallet called Zap on top of LND. “What I mean by that is: Before all the apps, we need to build a healthy network that has liquidity, reliability, high-uptime nodes, healthy channels, etc. We need to onboard an entire industry onto a new layer and build a healthy topology. This release kinda marks the ‘start’ so to speak.”