
 
  
   
  Sara Hsu 
  
  
   
    
    Yihan Fang speaks at the Lendit Conference on April 10, 2018. 
    
   
  
 
China's P2P lending industry has become increasingly consolidated in the face of financial regulations that have imposed extra costs on those doing business in this realm. As smaller, less competitive firms are winnowed out, companies that are larger and more transparent have risen to the fore. These include Yirendai and Hexindai, both of which are listed on the NYSE and NASDAQ, respectively, and have taken pains to comply with regulations and to seek out higher quality borrowers. 
At the Lendit Conference in San Francisco last week, I sat down with Yihan Fang of Yirendai, and with Johnson Zhang of Hexindai, separately to get their views on China's increasingly tough lending industry. 
 
Sara Hsu: How have regulations, like P2P lenders may not guarantee their loans and must use a custodial bank for their transactions, impacted your company and the P2P lending industry overall? 
 
  
Yihan Fang: The P2P lending industry is in a different stage now, it went from being very wild to heavy regulation, and after that it will be a more rational industry. Yirendai is in compliance with regulations, implementing minor modifications along the way. Compliance was always the highest priority, and from day one we had a very good business model and didn't change it along the way. We have high quality customers. We have a good business platform and have used a bank as custodian since 2015, even before the regulations came out. Yirendai also strives for transparency. Regulations are good, because the industry has been quite chaotic since other companies don't do the same things as we did. 
 
Johnson Zhang: Hexindai has had no negative impact of regulation. The new regulations are focused on petty loans. We don't touch the petty loans market so we have no impact. In this market, all of the borrowers lack the capacity to repay loans, they just borrow more money to repay existing loans. Unlike these other firms, we offer loans in the range of 20,000 to 200,000 RMB to middle class consumers with a stable income. These are borrowers who are upgrading their social class for a better life. The second part of the regulations restricts financial institutions like banks from providing funds to fintech companies, but we do not rely on any financial institutions. All of our fund sourcing is from individuals. Our company is part of the Beijing Internet Finance Association, which alerts us to upcoming regulations. The China Banking Regulatory Commission governs the P2P industry. Government registration for P2P companies is mandatory this year. Those that fail the process will be shut down. The number of competitors will become smaller. 
 
 
SH: How do you control for risks? 
 
JZ: We use big data, gathering credit information from lots of third party vendors. 100% of our borrowers have a credit card; that is, 100% of them have a track record in the bank system. We also use GBG software to control for fraud. If there is any doubt about the customer, we will double check through our call center. We use the FICO decision-making engine to categorize customers in terms of risk, fixing the rules according to our own model. Finally, we assign a credit score based on our own unique credit score and credit amount modeling. In addition, we insure our loans and we ourselves do not extend our own credit for loans. We also used part of the proceeds from the U.S. IPO to enhance our risk management system, to update our decision making engine as well as our anti-fraud solutions and to enlarge our credit checking team. 
YF: We have a proprietary risk-management system. This is similar to a FICO score, as we use five grades of pricing. Based on the scoring, we determine the rate and also the amount of their loan. That is for the borrowers. For the lenders, we work with third parties to provide a credit guarantee. Yirendai also requires insurance for some loans based on the risk classification. Investors are very safe if they invest in these insured loans. Insurance is required for some loans and encouraged by regulators. For the rest of the loans, we work with a credit guarantee company. 
 
SH: In what areas do you see room to grow for your firm? 
 
YF: There is a lot of opportunity in our wealth management business, as there are many under served high net worth investors who are new to wealth management. This is totally innovative, we will not copy wealth management business of developed countries because we have a totally different market environment for the Chinese mass affluent. The key now is to do asset allocation for China's rich. [The rich] used to do fixed asset investment when the economy was growing very fast, with sometimes double digit returns, but now China's economic growth has slowed down. Wealthy people need to understand about risk-based asset allocation across different classes and maybe even different locations. Yirendai uses online investor education and solutions, such as robo-advisors to offer an easy to use and transparent tool. The unique advantage now is to use data and technology to find and know our customers in order to offer the right products at the right time. There is much potential in China for robo-advisors, but the key is gaining trust among users. Robo-advisors have lower barriers to entry, maybe $10,000 or $1,000 in America, so it's simpler to use. In China, people don't pay fees for wealth management so there are different dynamics. We have to educate investors to believe that robo-advisors will do a good job. 
 
JZ: To get customers, we have online and offline channels. We have physical branches belonging to our corporate partner Hexin, which focuses on individual loan brokers. We also have online channels using search engines and third parties. We are aiming to enter the auto industry next through both online and offline channels. We will partner with retail chains. Also, after the registration process, overall investment in the P2P industry is expected to increase. Right now, there are only 17 million active investors in the P2P company industry, but in China the A share individual account number is 135 million. So there are potentially more investors after the regulations take full effect. 
