

            U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he’s considering a trip to China, adding that he’s “cautiously optimistic” of reaching an agreement that defuses a dispute over trade.“A trip is under consideration,” Mnuchin told reporters on Saturday in Washington at the IMF’s spring meetings. “I’m not going to make a comment on timing, nor do I have anything confirmed.”Mnuchin said he met with Yi Gang, governor of the People’s Bank of China, at the IMF gathering this week. The discussions focused on issues related to the Chinese central bank, not trade, said the secretary. Mnuchin said they also discussed China’s planned further opening of some of the country’s markets, a move that U.S. has encouraged and “appreciated.”#lazy-img-326848273:before{padding-top:66.64999999999999%;}Yi Gang, left, at the IMF spring meetings.Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg
        
            {"contentId":"P7JOA16VDKHS01","position":"box","dimensions":{"mobile":[[300,250],[1,1]]},"type":"Mobile Body Box Ad","positionIncrement":1,"targeting":{"position":"box1","positionIncrement":1,"url":"/news/articles/2018-04-21/mnuchin-says-he-s-considering-trip-to-china-amid-trade-dispute"},"containerId":"box-kzXw1sc"}
            
        
        Mnuchin said China has been “very helpful” in supporting U.S. sanctions against North Korea, and he welcomed leader Kim Jong Un’s suspension of nuclear testing that was announced less than a day earlier.“We are going to continue the sanctions” and a “maximum pressure” campaign until North Korea abandons its nuclear-weapons program in a verifiable way, he said.China TalksMnuchin indicated he’s involved in a “dialogue” with the Chinese government to resolve the brewing trade spat between the world’s two biggest economies. “We’re cautiously optimistic to see if we can try to reach an agreement,” Mnuchin said.Escalating tensions between the U.S. and China have rattled financial markets and raised concerns the world is barreling toward a trade war. President Donald Trump has proposed imposing tariffs on as much as $150 billion on Chinese imports, while China has vowed to retaliate on everything from American soybeans to planes.
        