
The energy industry is in race to lower carbon emissions, not more renewables - is an expression you often hear these days from investment analysts to circuit speakers, although BP chief executive Bob Dudley is widely thought to have come up with the phrase earlier in 2018. 
That said, green energy in concert with natural gas, will or rather already is driving this inexorable march to lower carbon. In fact, in mainland Europe lower carbon might well become a regulatory imperative, and in the Middle East the "solar Arabia" hypothesis is all the rage. 
It all means that Dudley’s assertion of the energy industry's march towards a lower carbon future might well see participants in general, and utilities in particular, selling green energy to their peers with blockchain technology being the key enabler. 
 
  
   
  Pixabay 
  
  
   
    
    Utilities are embracing blockchain as industry shakeup looms. 
    
   
  
 
 
  
In the simplest of terms, a blockchain is akin to a digitally distributed ledger that can be replicated and spread across many nodes in a peer-to-peer network, thereby minimizing the need for oversight and governance of a single ledger. 
And instead of dealing and managing duplicate databases, blockchain comprises of a single record maintained by the participants' network rather than a centralized entity, that is accessible and secure. 
 
At Istrade 2018, an annual energy trading and supply summit held recently in Istanbul, Turkey, on 9-10 April, consensus was that many utilities company, especially in Germany, are piloting viable direct trades with one another using blockchain. 
With moves by "Big Oil" players including BP and Shell to deploy blockchain - for uses ranging from oil and gas trading to order processing - already in public domain, efforts by Eurasian utilities to test blockchain for wholesale trading should not come as a surprise, opined Ashutosh Shashtri, Director of EnerStrat Consulting. 
"In theory, the idea is that publishing orders and transactions via blockchain would replace trading via brokers. That excites industry rivals to come together and invest in a raft of blockchain start-ups." 
While blockchain is the buzzword across the energy sphere, Shashtri said caution and healthy skepticism should not be discarded. "Many initiatives are years away from successful execution. And don't forget that regulators within the European Union and beyond are seeking to control utilities sector, especially worried about security issues and data breaches. Secure as blockchain is, nothing is 100% perfect - both the industry and regulators know that."