
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
Major cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum and Litecoin do not need advertisement, because they are well-known in the investment community. 
Yet investors seem to think otherwise. 
So when they learned that Google had announced that it is planning to ban cryptocurrency advertisements on its websites, they turned bearish. 
[Ed. note: Investing in cryptocoins or tokens is highly speculative and the market is largely unregulated. Anyone considering it should be prepared to lose their entire investment. Disclosure: I don't own any Bitcoin.] 
 
  
In the 24 hours that followed the announcement, Bitcoin was down 3.47%, Ethereum was down 4.67%, Ripple was down 6.53% and Litecoin 1.26%—see table 1. 
Table 1 
%24H Price Change For Major Cryptocurrencies 
 
  
   
    
    Cryptocurrency 
    %24h 
    
    
    Bitcoin 
    -3.47 
    
    
    Ethereum 
    -4.67 
    
    
    Ripple 
    -6.53 
    
    
    Litecoin 
    -1.26 
    
   
  
 
 
Source: Coinmarketcap.com 3/15/18 at 1:30 p.m. 
Only five cryptocurrencies out of the top 100 advanced in the last seven days, while 92 declined—see table 2. 
Table 2 
Number of Cryptocurrencies That Advanced/Declined In The Top 100 Ranks 
 
  
   
    
    Cryptocurrencies Advance/Decline 
    Number 
    
    
    Advance 
    5 
    
    
    Decline 
    95 
    
   
  
 
Source: Coinmarketcap.com 3/15/18 at 1:30 p.m. 
Google’s ban comes roughly two months after Facebook came up with its own plan to ban cryptocurrency advertising in its own website, sending cryptocurrency prices lower back then. 
But banning cryptocurrency advertising on the part of Facebook, Google and other websites is actually cause to be bullish, not bearish, over the long term. At least for major cryptocurrencies for major cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple and Litecoin. 
There are a number of reasons for that. One of them is that these currencies do not need advertisement. 
They are already known among investors. 
Another reason is that the ban will help weed out scam coins from the market, and therefore, install confidence among investors in legitimate coins. “While this isn’t the best news, it could be a good thing for cryptocurrency,” says Craig Cole of CryptoMaps.info. “The ban will help solidify the market and weed out scam coins and illegitimate actors looking to get rich quick, providing stability. This ban doesn’t mean that cryptocurrency is going away. I believe it will ultimately strengthen it.” 
Weeding out scam coins, in turn, will eventually limit the overall supply of coins, and therefore, help the prices of major cryptocurrencies rally.