
 A Blockchain-driven company plans to “give people the power to be instantly everywhere” by creating a marketplace where users can hire someone’s physical presence in order to see and hear the world as they do.UbiatarPlay says it is bringing to life technology that has only been seen in sci-fi movies until now. Its system would see individuals, known as Avatars, be paid to live-stream their smartphone camera at a location their “Usar” chooses. A “revolutionary” Graphical User Interface would enable the customer – who could be thousands of miles away – to direct the Avatar and move them where they desire.The company’s white paper highlights several examples of how its platform could be used. For an example, an Avatar based in Egypt could offer museum experiences – “letting people from all over the world freely explore any room, any masterpiece and any document they like.”UbiatarPlay also claims the technology could be a game changer for people who cannot afford or do not have the time to physically be somewhere. The project says Avatars would enable a businessman to be “telepresent” at a meeting on another continent, while students could attend lectures at their universities remotely.Avatars would be able to set their hourly rate or offer timed packages for experiences, and a scheduling system on the platform would manage their bookings. UbiatarPlay hopes the technology will reduce unemployment rates around the world, with rules enforced to ensure Avatars are not mistreated or requested to do something illegal.Avatar community is “already growing”UbiatarPlay uses patented technology, apps and software from Ubiatar Inc, a company which is based in Silicon Valley. Users would be able to find Avatars on the UbiatarPlay platform or through online advertising.To give users a 360-degree video stream, Avatars would need to connect an inexpensive camera to their smartphone. “Long work” has gone into creating a system where Avatars can easily understand what their customer is asking of them, with iconic commands that make the process “quick, effortless and precise.” In time, UbiatarPlay wants to launch a virtual reality (VR) headset so users can enjoy an immersive experience when they are exploring a remote location.Users would be able to access their streams through web-based apps supported by Windows, Mac and Linux. Apps have also already been launched for Android and iOS devices, and UbiatarPlay says its Avatar community is already growing.The company says its platform will only accept payments in Ubiatar coins (UAC) – making transactions inclusive as well as “decentralized, secure and affordable.” Avatars would be able to spend their earnings through prepaid cards which are accepted anywhere Visa and MasterCard can be used. UbiatarPlay says Avatars who store UAC in their wallet will have their profiles displayed more prominently in search results and could save money on transaction fees when using their prepaid cards.At the conclusion of every stream, Usars will rate their Avatar’s performance and vice versa, helping to create a marketplace of reputable providers.Getting the project off the groundUbiatarPlay’s initial coin offering is scheduled to begin on May 9.By the third quarter of 2018, the company hopes that 10,000 unique users will have registered with its platform – heralding the start of “substantial revenues.”The end of the year will see the start-up invest in a “powerful” advertising campaign where at least 1,000 Avatars broadcast live from the streets, creating “the world’s largest TV network of real-time, live video streams.”In 2020, the company is going to launch what it calls the Million Avatars Initiative, with UbiatarPlay hoping that its service will become as ubiquitous and widespread as other sharing economy players such as Uber and Airbnb. Disclaimer. Cointelegraph does not endorse any content or product on this page. While we aim at providing you all important information that we could obtain, readers should do their own research before taking any actions related to the company and carry full responsibility for their decisions, nor this article can be considered as an investment advice.    