
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Bitcoin's Decline Isn't Over - Even if it has long term potential (Shutterstock) 
    
   
  
 
I continue to think Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have further to fall and I am unlikely to become bullish until Bitcoin drops below $5,000. 
The basic premise is that speculators got way ahead of themselves in terms of the adoption rate.  The adoption rate has slowed by every metric I look at, while speculators are still stuck holding onto cryptocurrencies that have declined in value.  Virtually every purchase of Bitcoin since the spike higher around U.S. Thanksgiving is now losing money.  Those holding cryptocurrencies bought with credit cards are feeling the additional pain of interest payments if they bought using credit (which scares me as a concept as I analyzed here). 
While new adopters are happening at a declining rate, the amount of regulatory and tax scrutiny is increasing. 
Despite being bearish, I believe that there will be value in some cryptocurrencies, even Bitcoin itself, and some of the ICO's - which seem to be viewed with a high degree of skepticism right now (justified in many cases). 
 
  
Which ICO will be worth it?  Which crypto should we back? When should I buy Bitcoin?  These are all questions that we will continue to try and answer. 
For now, I think regardless of the cryptocurrency you are looking at - you will be able to buy it cheaper, significantly cheaper in the near term. 
We have gone from FOMO or what I called the Five Stages Of Not Owning Bitcoin Grief to a concern that purchases might have been foolish.  While the true "believers" don't see that, I see it and think the mentality needs to change for Bitcoin to go higher - all markets are driven by emotion at some level and we went from extreme fear of missing out for the average person, to a concern that the naysayers are right. 
 
According to CoinDesk, the price of Bitcoin dropped from $7,500 to $7,350 just in the time it took me to write this. Sure it can bounce, but for now I will assume any bounce is more about those whose interests depend on Bitcoin doing well, than any real sign of renewed interest and adoption.