
It’s getting a bit too happy out there 
 
  
   
  Adobe Stock 
  
  
   
    
     
    
   
  
 
What cracks me up about investor sentiment these days is that so many professional and non-professional investors seem to be acting with their hearts and not their heads.  Bitcoin and the crypto-craze is part of that, with speculation trying to pass itself off as investing.  So is the creation of more and more ETFs, each one trying to claim its own little corner of the capital markets (latest example: an ETF focused on companies that cater to pet owners).  It is a natural human emotion to want to be successful, and to many that includes amassing wealth that cannot be outlived.  But as I have lamented through much of this winter, I feel that many in the investment community are setting themselves up for failure and are destined to be on the wrong side of market history. 
For the professionals, I can understand the ever-bullish spin on market events.  "Corrections are healthy," "earnings are what matters" and "with bond yields so low, stocks are the only game in town" are all part of the punditry these days.  There is some truth to all of that, but not enough to prevent widespread disappointment, perhaps in the coming weeks and months, as the positive sentiment eventually succumbs to the excesses that have built up in the financial system over the past 9 years. 
 
  
But the individual investor does not see the train coming, even though the tunnel is dark and the train's lights are on.  They continue to stare at the tracks with their headphones in, looking for pennies and other shiny objects on the track in front of them.  That's the imagery I get when I look at the latest (March-end) report from the American Association of Individual Investors (AAII), which has published a monthly Asset Allocation Survey of its members since right after the 1987 stock market crash.  As the name implies, these are not specifically professional investors, and are likely made up primarily of devoted do-it-yourself investors and some financial advisors.  Thus, it has a lot less "spin" than we'd expect from investment pros, many of whom are forced to root for the stock market to go up to perpetuate their high bonuses and the thrill of "winning" in the market that drives TV ratings and excitement about investing. 
OK, now back to what the boring long-short dividend guy (me) has to say.  The AAII survey reached a milestone over the past 4 months (December 2017 - February 2018).  Its survey respondents were over 70% allocated to stocks (versus bonds and cash) for 3 consecutive months, and in March that figure (at 69.7%) still rounds up to 70%.  Here is the March summary from a much larger table you can get at AAII.com. 
 
 
  
   
    
    Stocks 
    Bonds 
    Cash 
    
    
    69.7% 
    15.6% 
    14.7% 
    
   
  
 
Source: AAII.com 
Why is that 70% level for 4 straight months significant?  Because it has only occurred one other time, during the first 4 months of 1998.  At that point, the AAII stock allocation hovered above that 70% level for the next couple of years.  A market bull (and there are still plenty out there) will quickly point out that the S&P 500 did not peak until early 2000, or about 2 years after the AAII rose above that giddy 70% level for a sustained period.  That is true, but my key point here is that AAII's survey is yet another indicator, piled upon so many others I have pointed out to you over the past year, that signals that equity returns have likely peaked for this market cycle.