
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Giant letters, reading the word 'blockchain', are displayed at the blockchain center in Lithuania's capital Vilnius. (PETRAS MALUKAS/AFP/Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
If you’re about to start your funding cycle with an ICO or have finished one recently, attending multiple crypto conferences across the planet is important to promote your company and coins in order to get in front of the right investors. But you have to be prepared to do your homework to ensure that you attend only the right ones. 
The price for an ICO related conference isn’t low. It can be anywhere from $20,000 to $100,000 in sponsorship fees or $2,000-4,000 just to get a pass. Off-the-record, crypto conference organizers confessed that they spend anywhere from $300,000 to $1 million to organize a single event that can accommodate 1,000 to 8,000 people. Unfortunately, many of these events are far from perfect and won’t help the company to raise funds or build the network. 
To ensure that you’re getting value for your money, it’s better to do research before committing to a Blockchain/ICO conference. 
 
  
Top Speakers 
One easy way to identify a good conference to attend is by looking at their list of speakers. There are about 100 crypto and blockchain industry leaders that can help you make a decision. For example, if Brian Armstrong from Coinbase, Chris Larsen from Ripple, Changpeng “CZ” Zhao from Binance,  Charles Lee from Litecoin or innovators like Vitalik Buterin and Nick Szabo have officially committed, you’ll also want to be there. It adds more credibility to the event even doesn’t boast a lot of top speakers, but a bunch of respectable crypto gurus. 
In order to attract more people, the conferences use a trick – they add the word “invited” on their official webpage alone with a list of top speakers. That’s definitely an indication that something fishy might be going on. Yes, they may have invited industry leaders to speak at the conference, but this doesn’t mean that they will even attend it. So, you have to make an effort to find out if the event’s organizer has received a commitment from “invited” speakers. 
 
Event Organizers and Attendees 