
 
  
   
  Credit: Metro Bank. 
  
  
   
    
    Metro Bank founder and chair Vernon Hill. 
    
   
  

Our bank accounts are pretty stupid.
Despite having decades of data on your spending habits, movements, even your holiday choices, banks offer little back to help you manage your money better.
But this summer, Vernon Hill’s Metro Bank in Britain is launching what could be the first artificial intelligence to analyze people’s spending patterns.
Caught out by an auto-renewing subscription you forgot to cancel? Overspending leaving you short at the end of the month? Or were you accidentally double-charged at Costa?
 
 
Metro claims its new AI—powered by Israel-based Personetics and launching this Summer—will banish these financial woes by spotting them before they happen.
 
  
   
  Credit: Metro Bank. 
  
  
   
    
    Metro Bank's Insights will spot if your spending jumps. 
    
   
  


Smarter spending
“We’ve all been there when you forget to cancel a free trial and end up accidentally subscribing for another month, or you leave a cafe only to realise you’ve mistakenly been charged twice for the same cup of coffee,” said Craig Donaldson, CEO at Metro Bank.
Metro Bank’s app will gain a new Insights tab that will categorize spending, and then start spotting trends and irregularities in your finances.
At first, these Insights will only appear within Metro Bank’s mobile app, but Head of Digital Alex Parks told Forbes that the longer-term goal is to push these notifications directly to customers.
“So, for example, if there's a specific jump in a certain utility bill like gas or electric, we'd flag that to you,” he said.
So you’ll never get caught out if you’ve been using the heating more than usual.
 
  
   
  Credit: Metro Bank. 
  
  
   
    
    Alex Park, Metro Bank's Head of Digital. 
    
   
  

Slow and steady
Rival mobile-only challenger banks have long-promised this kind of AI-powered spending analysis – Monzo even held it up as a feature back in 2015 when it launched – but none have delivered the kind of automated analysis that Metro Bank is promising.
What’s most impressive is that Metro Bank was viewed by many as having missed the smartphone revolution, it launched Britain’s first new high street bank in 150 years in 2010 and has been playing catch-up in mobile ever since.
But in the last 18 months, having redesigned its mobile experience from the ground-up, Metro Bank has won awards for its app and has quickly matched and now exceeds the features of its mobile rivals.
Still, Parks admitted Metro’s AI remains a work-in-progress.
He said there’s no sure-fire way for Metro Bank to categorize your spending – the bank can only guess whether your Tesco trip was for groceries or gas – and said the feature will be opt-in when it launches, but declined to provide a specific date of when that might be.

Meanwhile, a Monzo spokesperson told Forbes that AI-powered spending analysis remains on its roadmap.