
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    The paper airplane is the symbol of the Telegram app. It was banned in Russia this week. (Shutterstock) 
    
   
  
 
Telegram has beat the ban. The Americans are helping. Sort of. 
As everyone now knows, the messaging app preferred by the crypto crowd, Telegram, was banned in Russia this week.  It was banned for not following an order by Russian law enforcement to provide encryption keys to its software. A ban there is important for Telegram for two reasons: first, it gives Telegram's founder Pavel Durov even more street cred. Durov is not giving up user privacy. He is not bowing to the FSB, the Russian version of the CIA. In the cryptocurrency community, you cannot score more bonafides than that. A ban against Telegram is also important for the company because that's where the company started, and therefore, that is where its original base mostly resides. 
However, since Telegram has become the unofficial messenger of Bitcoin and other coin enthusiasts, Russia accounts for a little under 10% of its user base today, according to the company. 
Durov said Wednesday that the ban by internet providers in Russia -- in affect now for 72 hours -- has had no significant impact on user engagement. He did not say how many users have disengaged. 
He did thank four big U.S. cloud service providers for helping the Russians get around the ban. 
"Thank you Apple, Google, Amazon, Microsoft, for not taking part in political censorship," Durov said yesterday on his Telegram channel. "We have been relyingon third-party cloud services to remain partly available for our users (in Russia)." 
 
  
Telegram client apps are available for Android, iOS, Windows Phone, Windows NT, macOS and Linux. 
It is hard to find someone that is not on Durov's side. "In private communication channels, people should be free to communicate what and with whom they want, and they should be able to do so in complete privacy," says Mick Hagen, CEO of Mainframe, a decentralized messaging network. "This is often not the case due to government censorship and surveillance," he says. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Pavel Durov, CEO and co-founder of Telegram ring day one of TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2015 at Pier 70 on September 21, 2015 in San Francisco, California. (Photo by Steve Jennings/Getty Images for TechCrunch) 
    
   
  
 
 
The FSB had asked for Telegram encryption keys in order to unlock messages sent by an individual involved in the St. Petersburg metro bombing on April 3, 2017. Sixteen people were killed, including the perpetrator, and another 64 people were injurred in the blast set off by a Muslim extremist, the Russian government said. 
Durov is no stranger to conflict with the Kremlin. He lives in self-imposed exile following another run-in with authorities who came after his social media network VKontakte for posting messages about an anti-Putin protest rally organized by well-known Russian activist Alexei Navalny. 
Meanwhile, with the help of American cloud service providers, Russians are able to accesss Telegram through proxy servers and virtual private networks, or VPNs. 
Durov sees himself as a leader in the resistance against state control of encryption technologies. 
He has started giving out Bitcoin financed grants to individuals and companies who run Socket Secure 5 proxies and VPN. "I am happy to donate millions of dollars this year to this cause and hope other people will follow. I call this the 'digital resistance' -- a decentralized movement standing for global freedom and progress," Durov says.