
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Photographer: Mary Turner/Bloomberg 
    
   
  
 
In the volatile world of cryptocurrencies, the term ”stablecoin” may seem like an oxymoron. However, these price-stable assets are real and becoming more popular with traders. Stablecoins are non-volatile cryptocurrencies tied to price-stable assets like the U.S. dollar. They are used as a store of value and also work to serve as a basic medium of exchange. 
"Cryptocurrencies provide decentralization of capital and stablecoins are one of the keys to bringing the benefits to everyday people through price stability,” Rafael Cosman, the cofounder and CTO of TrustToken, said. Last month, Bittrex launched trading of TrueUSD. TrueUSD is an independently verified fiat-backed stablecoin that is redeemable for U.S. dollars. 
Since its initial launch on Bittrex on March 5, paired with Bitcoin, TrueUSD (TUSD) has also been listed on Bittrex with pairings to Ether and, more recently, its controversial competitor, Tether. The pairing of one stablecoin to another allows for traders to mitigate risk with Tether by efficiently and quickly exchanging their holdings into fully collateralized TrueUSD. 
 
  
What Is The Utility Behind Stablecoins? 
Stablecoins are useful to traders because they shield them from market volatility. While having a stablecoin is practical for exchanges, the TrueUSD/Ether pairing is the first time that two collateralized stablecoins have been paired against each other. Unless the exchange’s intention is to allow their traders to switch to a more viable stablecoin, the utility in having two stablecoins on an exchange is not obvious. Listing two stablecoins demonstrates that exchanges like Bittrex want to protect themselves from over relying on any single stable cryptocurrency. 
Behind The "Tether" Investigation 
Tether is under investigation around whether or not the $2.3 billion in Tether issued to date is fully backed by U.S. dollars. And news continues to circulate about Tether’s too-close-for-comfort relationship to the cryptocurrency exchange Bitfinex, as the industry speculates if the cryptocurrency actually has sustainable banking relationships.  
