
 
  
   
  RIA Channel, LLC 
  
  
   
    
    Jon Porter, CEO, Three Bell Capital 
    
   
  
 
Watch Video 
Three Bell Capital ranked #1 on the Top 100 Emerging Wealth Management Firms by RIA Channel. Jon Porter, CEO, Three Bell Capital sat down with with Julie Cooling, Founder and CEO of RIA Channel to discuss his firm’s success and plans for continued growth. 
Based in Silicon Valley, Three Bell Capital works with many entrepreneurs and start up businesses.  Their focus on alternative wealth building strategies coupled with delivery of comprehensive planning services has served their clients well. Three Bell Capital is also almost 100% referral-based. Porter jokingly credits “Jerry Maguire” for their business model. By serving fewer clients, maintaining deeper relationships and providing broader advice relevant to the entrepreneurial community, Porter has decidedly differentiated Three Bell Capital from other advisory firms. 
As more and more advisory businesses focus on traditional investments, passive ETFs and model investment manager offerings, Three Bell Capital adds value through alternative investments including access to hedge funds. On the service side, Three Bell Capital assists with small business demands including tax, retirement and insurance. The field of automated advice, outsourced asset management and cookie cutter investment products may help the flock or majority of traditional advisors. True wealth management is designed to build wealth, and manage financial planning and financial burdens for families and businesses. With this as their focus, Three Bell Capital is well on its way. 
 
  
Although growth by acquisition wasn’t part of their firm’s initial plans, Three Bell Capital recently acquired a $700 million dollar wealth management business. Once complete, assets under management for the firm will exceed $1.2 billion. RIA Channel ranked RIA firms based on quantitative and qualitative factors including size, growth and services offered. To learn more about the ranking criteria for the 2017 Top 100 Emerging Wealth Management Firms, view it here.