
 
            
            
                              
                              
              
              
              
                Exchanges  
              
              
                                
                    
                       
                      
                        2 mins ago    |
                          By Lubomir Tassev -   |
                          22                                                                    
                      
                        London-Based LBX Exchange Adds Bitcoin Cash to Its Offerings                                              
                    
                                      
                    
                        

            


London Block Exchange has listed Bitcoin Cash (BCH) and Ethereum Classic (ETC) among its cryptocurrency offerings. The platform dedicated to the UK market now trades six cryptocurrencies against the GBP. LBX opened with OTC trades in November and promised to add multiple new coins in the future. The exchange also offers on-shore UK banking.
Also read: Bitcoin Cash Adoption Continues: Crypto Cafebar, Gold Vendor, Concealed-Carry Clothing
London Block Exchange Now Trades Six Cryptos
London-based cryptocurrency exchange LBX has added support for Bitcoin Cash (BCH) and Ethereum Classic (ETC) trading against the British pound. London Block Exchange claims to be the only UK crypto platform currently offering GBP pairing with BCH and ETC. It also provides its clients with on-shore banking services and access to the Faster Payments system.
The multi-coin exchange dedicated to the UK market now lists six cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), and Litecoin (LTC). Its management has promised to regularly add new cryptos. The decision to introduce Bitcoin Cash and Ethereum Classic comes weeks after the centralized Ripple (XRP) was added.
“We are excited to announce that we have an addition to our blossoming selection of cryptocurrencies. Our customers will now be able to buy, sell, send, and receive Ethereum Classic (ETC) and Bitcoin Cash (BCH),” the company said in a post on its website. According to the press release, the cryptocurrencies will be tradable with the following pairs: BCH-GBP, BCH-BTC, ETC-GBP, and ETC-BTC.
“As we open our doors to UK crypto enthusiasts, we’re listening and acting on what the community wants – and that’s an array of good quality coin options to trade, all backed by a reliable, comprehensive and user-friendly service that they can trust,” LBX founder and CEO Benjamin Dives stated.
LBX Offers On-Shore Accounts for Its Clients
LBX is based in London’s Canary Wharf commercial district. The multi-cryptocurrency platform provides crypto-exchange services to both consumers and institutional investors via its online platform and through a mobile app. It follows strict know-your-customer and anti-money-laundering procedures.
London Block Exchange is also an e-wallet services provider registered with the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority. In March, it announced it will offer its members access to the Faster Payments system. The platform also introduced on-shore accounts for its clients.
The price of Bitcoin Cash has spiked in recent weeks amidst strong demand for BCH. Its market value is currently hovering around $1,300 per coin. The surge was accompanied by more positive news. Revolut, a European startup offering alternative banking services, has recently announced it will be adding support for Bitcoin Cash, as news.Bitcoin.com reported. Meanwhile, an increasing number of businesses have started accepting Bitcoin Cash (BCH).

A recently conducted poll detected growing awareness about cryptocurrencies among British people. More than 90 percent of the interviewed said they had heard of bitcoin. The survey also found that many Britons, a third of the respondents, would be more likely to invest in cryptos if they were regulated. At the same time, 60 percent said they would not support a state-controlled cryptocurrency issued by the Bank of England.
UK-based professional investors are even more bullish. A poll among 150 financial services professionals and retail investors found that 54 percent of them expect the prices of cryptocurrencies to rise this year. More than half of the surveyed declared intentions to acquire more digital money and a third said they would retain their crypto holdings or sell only a part of them.
Do you think cryptocurrency trade will develop in Britain, whose capital city is a global center for traditional finances? Tell us in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Coinatmradar, Vkontakte, BBFpro.

Need to calculate your bitcoin holdings? Check our tools section.

        