

                                
    
        
            
            Facebook Suspends Data Firm Cubeyou in Wake of Privacy Scandal
            
            By Rebecca Spalding
        
            @rcurtisspalding
            
            More stories by Rebecca Spalding
        
    
            
            
                
        
            
        
            {"year":"numeric","month":"long","day":"numeric","hour":"numeric","minute":"numeric","timeZoneName":"short"}
        
        April 8, 2018, 3:29 PM EDT
    
        
    
                
            
            
        
    
    
                                
                                
        
            Facebook Inc. suspended another data firm after allegations surfaced that it may have improperly handled users’ information.The social media giant said it suspended Cubeyou pending an investigation. CNBC reported the data-analytics company was misleading users by saying information it collected through quizzes was for academic research, even though it was in fact being shared with marketers.“These are serious claims and we have suspended Cubeyou from Facebook while we investigate them,” said Ime Archibong, vice president of product partnerships at Menlo Park, California-based Facebook, in an emailed statement. “If they refuse or fail our audit, their apps will be banned from Facebook.”
        
            {"contentId":"P6VQ7B6JTSE801","position":"box","dimensions":{"mobile":[[300,250],[1,1]]},"type":"Mobile Body Box Ad","positionIncrement":1,"targeting":{"position":"box1","positionIncrement":1,"url":"/news/articles/2018-04-08/facebook-suspends-data-firm-cubeyou-in-wake-of-privacy-scandal"},"containerId":"box-9KQZr2y"}
            
        
        Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg is expected to testify before Congress this week, as lawmakers seek answers about users’ privacy on the site. Facebook has lost has lost billions in market value since a whistle-blower revealed last month that political firm Cambridge Analytica was misusing consumers’ data. Last week, Facebook said that as many as 87 million users may have been affected by the Cambridge Analytica case.Facebook reached the decision to suspend Cubeyou after CNBC contacted the company with the allegations. CNBC reported the suspension earlier Sunday.Cubeyou’s website says it has more than 10 million “panelists” contributing consumer opinions, interests and traits throughout the U.S. and that it’s used by more than 1,500 marketers. The company, whose press releases have said it’s based in San Francisco with offices in Milan, didn’t immediately respond to request for comment left outside regular business hours.
        
    
                                
                                
                                
            
                Quotes from this Article
                
            
        
                                
                                    
    
        
            Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal.
            
            LEARN MORE
        
    
                                    
        
            Have a confidential news tip?Get in touch with our reporters.
        
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
        {"url":"/news/articles/2018-04-08/facebook-suspends-data-firm-cubeyou-in-wake-of-privacy-scandal"}
        
    
                            