
This is the second in a series of articles on Initial Coin Offerings ("ICOs"). Future articles will follow various companies throughout their ICO process and investor perspectives. Check out the first article on Token Types and if you haven’t already, check out my previous articles on “A New Way To Raise Money” and “How to run an ICO”. 
 
  
   
  Jonathan Chester 
  
  
   
    
    ICO Regulations 
    
   
  
 
Over $8.8 billion has been invested via Initial Coin Offerings since the beginning of 2016. Entrepreneurs and companies around the world are looking into how they can get involved in this new fundraising phenomenon. This isn't a flood of small crowd funded projects; Telegram's $1.7 billion success show that serious money can be raised via ICOs, challenging the traditional funding path of the initial public offering. The three largest IPOs in January raised just $5 billion in total. 
The elephant in the room when it comes to this new form of fundraising is regulation. Prior to accepting any clients at Inwage, my IT advisory and services firm for ICOs and blockchain application development, I always make sure they are ready to take regulation seriously. There are three types of regulatory regimes that we see around the world. 
 
  
 
  Outright Hostility (China) 
  Cautious and strict, but still open (USA) 
  Open, friendly, and liberal (Switzerland) 
 
The interesting thing about ICOs is that all business is conducted electronically on global blockchain networks, so it is very easy for companies to locate themselves where the regulation is most appropriate. 
 
While countries like China has banned ICOs altogether, the US and European Union, with their competing tax and privacy havens, have a more open approach. In these jurisdictions, companies have seemed to adopt a similar approach regarding ICO token classifications, which tend to be broken down into two different categories: 
 
  Security Tokens: Tokens which are directly related to the growth of the company. These are typically seen as being within the purview of securities regulations in these jurisdictions. 
 Utility Tokens: Tokens which have some sort of use in the project selling the token. This can be a preorder, a discount, a membership, etc. These token, which have free floating prices, have an indirect correlation to the growth of the company due to token scarcity. There seems to be very little regulatory clarity around these kinds of tokens. 
 
The global test to determine if a token is a security versus a utility is the Howey Test, named for the 1946 U.S. Supreme Court case where defendants, W. J. Howey Co and Howey-In-The-Hills Service Inc., offered real estate contracts for tracts of land with citrus groves. Once the contract was purchased, the defendants offered buyers of those contracts the option of leasing any purchased land back to the defendants, who would then tend to the land, harvest, pool, and market the citrus crop. The Supreme Court determined that this transaction qualified as a security, or an “investment contract”, which should have been registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission because it met the four following conditions: 
 
 It is was investment of money 
 There is an expectation of profits from the investment 
 The investment of money was in a common enterprise 
 Any profit was to come from the efforts of a promoter or third party 
 
You must keep in mind that if your utility token does not pass the Howey test, the money you take in might be construed as revenue rather than an investment, which has tax implications. 
 
  
   
  Juan Llanos 
  
  
   
    
    ConsenSys Fintech and Regtech lead and Bitwage advisor 
    
   
  
 
I spoke regarding global regulatory sentiment with Juan Llanos, ConsenSys Fintech and Regtech lead, who has over a decade of experience as a compliance officer for non-bank financial institutions in New York and is a regulatory advisor for my first company, Bitwage. 
 
 At this point in time, all token distinctions and definitions come from the emerging crypto industry, not regulators. In the eyes of regulators, there are no clear cut token definitions, only ‘activities’ and ‘products’ regulated under existing law. That is to say, several regulators are claiming jurisdiction over crypto assets inasmuch as these emerging assets fit their subject matter focus. Some regulatory agencies have defined ‘virtual currencies’ as ‘monetary equivalents’ for purposes of money transmission and anti-money laundering; others have defined them as digital goods tradable in markets for purposes of ‘commodities’ regulation; yet others have defined them as ‘property’ for taxation purposes. 
 That said, in the narrower sphere of tokens as fund-raising mechanisms, the default position of securities regulators seems to be to consider them securities or investment contracts when they fit the conditions of the Howie test. The industry, however, has been relatively successful in explaining the fundamental differences between virtual/crypto currencies on one hand, and protocol, investment or application tokens on the other, depending on the rights they grant, the layer of technology where they reside, and the value or utility they provide. The latter - utility tokens - are now increasingly being described, and aptly so, as consumer tokens, when the value they provide is predominantly consumptive, rather than speculative. 
 
So while there seems to be a lack of clarity globally, Juan goes on to discuss what exactly regulators are looking at when it comes to enforcement: 
 
 The first thing securities and commodities regulators are looking at right now is fraud. They’re looking at the promises and representations being made to consumers and investors, and are trying to weed out the obvious scams and exaggerated claimants. It’s somewhat reassuring to see them taking this approach, given the sheer number of projects making unrealistic claims or misrepresenting obvious investment contracts as utility or consumer tokens. 
 The challenge for both regulators and entrepreneurs is that some of the digital cryptographically protected units of value known as tokens that are emerging have a dual nature: they’re both consumptive because they grant access to a technology service, for example, and at the same time provide an investment opportunity for purchasers. There is today a global legal vacuum with respect to certain tokens that have a strong utility and consumptive value because they don’t fully fit the definition of ‘investment contract’ under Howie or its international equivalents. 
 
While there is some debate as to which countries are the most friendly towards ICOs, the list includes Singapore, Luxembourg, Estonia, Lithuania, Gibraltar, Malta and Cayman Islands. According to my research, Switzerland tops the list. Switzerland hosts the fourth highest number of ICOs, after the U.S., the U.K.,  Russia. More important than the amount of ICOs is the jurisdictional history in cryptocurrency and the regulatory friendliness.