
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    The Fairmont Chateau Frontenac is Quebec City's most recognizable landmark. (Ellen Creager/Detroit Free Press/TNS via Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
Sooner or later, everything in the world of crypto requires recalibration. That applies to the price of bitcoin, the blockchain hype cycle and the state-of-play for all of the parties getting rich by selling picks and shovels to this new industry. 
The latter category includes electric utilities that initially saw cryptocurrency mining as a cute way to sell off some surplus power and generate incremental revenue. 
A perfect example comes in the Canadian province of Quebec, which embraced mining for a brief season - becoming a darling of the crypto world in the process - before quickly realizing that it had bit off more than it could chew and that a reconfiguration was needed. 
When I met with some representatives from Hydro-Quebec, the local electric utility, and Quebec’s investment promotion agency last December, the province had just begun to experience a ramp up of interest from miners from China and elsewhere responding to a marketing pitch intended lure data center operators to the region. 
 
  
Indeed, the Francophone province boasts every characteristic that crypto miners and data center operators desire: a surplus of cheap, renewable electricity, political stability, fast internet connections and cold weather to keep equipment from overheating. 
Though it didn’t even market itself as a mining destination, word of mouth quickly spread through the industry and Hydro-Quebec had soon enough found itself in talks with at least 35 miners seeking industrial-grade interconnections to its power grid. 
 
By mid-February, that figure had surged to around 100, including 50 new inquiries in the week after I published a CoinDesk article in January on the topic (others were reporting on this as well). 
It was sheer mania at that point. Random mining operations from the other side of the world were emailing me asking if I could connect them with Hydro-Quebec. I even spoke with a company that was trying acquire its own private dam in the province’s northern regions to provide hydro-power for a hundred-megawatt mining operation.