
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Cryptocurrency doesn't pose a risk to the global financial system, but it could if crypto-assets and their interconnections with the other financial sectors expand, G20 finance ministers were told (Photo by Artyom GeodakyanTASS via Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
Cryptocurrency doesn’t pose a risk to the global financial system; finance ministers of the world’s largest economies were told over the weekend. 
But cryptocurrency could threaten international financial stability with greater use and interconnections with the rest of the financial sectors, the ministers and central bank governors were warned in a prelude to the two-day G20 summit starting today. 
“Crypto-assets raise a host of issues around consumer and investor protection,” Financial Stability Board Chair Mark Carney told the government finance chiefs as they headed for their meeting in Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
Cryptocurrency dangers also come from their use to shield illicit activity and for money laundering and terrorist financing, the head of the G20 advisory group said. 
Carney urged the finance ministers to lessen the risks by working together to improve conduct, market integrity and cyber resilience in the cryptocurrency sector. 
 
  
Without improvements, the G20 advisory unit chief cautioned confidence in the global financial system could shrink if cryptocurrency use and interconnectedness become commonplace and threats appear. 
The lack of understanding of the interconnectedness of another batch of relatively new and unregulated financial products, (then over-the-counter derivatives), by domestic regulators helped lead to the 2008 meltdown, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission concluded. 
 
Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and his counterparts from France and Germany have called for discussions of cryptocurrency at the summit. 
Mnuchin has established a working group among U.S. regulators to look at cryptocurrency oversight. 
The group could ask Congress to give financial overseers more power to regulate cryptocurrency and other digital assets, Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Jay Clayton and Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chair Chris Giancarlo have said. 
A target date for a final report of the working group has not been revealed.