
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce tells investment advisers today people without a lot of money should be allowed to invest in hedge funds, venture capital and other private investment vehicles (Photo By Chris Maddaloni/CQ Roll Call) 
    
   
  
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission needs to give people without a lot of money a chance to invest in hedge funds, venture capital funds, other private funds and private companies, SEC Republican Commissioner Hester Peirce said today. 
“I’m not a fan of the accredited investor rule,” Peirce told a meeting of the Investment Adviser Association in Washington. 
To be an accredited investor and eligible to invest in private offerings, the SEC requires people to have at least $200,000 a year in income during each of the last two years for an individual (or $300,000 for couples) and net worth of at least $1 million. 
Net worth excludes the equity an investor has in his, her or their primary home. 
The SEC has limited investments in hedge funds and other forms of private equity to the wealthy because of fear less-well-off investors didn't have the savvy to understand the risks and could suffer more from losses in these investments which are often hard to sell. 
 
  
SEC Commissioner Peirce added she is not a fan of the Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule for financial professionals either, calling it “destructive.” 
“People throw out word fiduciary a lot. I am open to the SEC putting out guidance on what that word meets,” Peirce said. 
Currently, the SEC places a fiduciary requirement on investment advisers to act in the best interest of their clients while broker-dealers are held to a less stringent suitability standard. 
Peirce said the SEC should act on harmonizing the standard of care owed to investors by advisers and brokers. She added, though, it is important to allow for different payment types and a variety of levels of service. 
 
On initial coin offerings, Peirce said ICO fraud is a fair focus of the SEC’s enforcement unit. 
At the same time, she said the Commission needs to be open to see whether it needs to adjust its rules and regulation to allow that innovation to happen. 
SEC Enforcement Division Co-Director Stephanie Avakian said there are dozens of cryptocurrency-related investments going on. 
As more retail investors ask their financial professionals about digital assets, SEC Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations Director Pete Driscoll told the largely-adviser audience they will see small sections in exams on how they are treating cryptocurrencies. 
If they are making crypto investments for their clients, advisers will be asked what disclosures they are providing, the SEC’s exam chief said. 
Driscoll said newly minted robo advisers are often running into problems with the SEC because, as tech firms, they have not had to deal with government regulation before. 
He said his examiners are finding robos advisors that haven’t disclosed their trading strategies. 
Driscoll added advertising violations are a big problem with robos. 
“They run afoul of us of us sometimes,” said the SEC exam chief.