
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Valery Vavilov, co-founder and chief executive officer of Bitfury, smiles during the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California, U.S., on Wednesday, May 3, 2017. (David Paul Morris/Bloomberg) 
    
   
  
 
Even with the dramatic decline in the bitcoin price so far this year, those who were early to the party are still sitting on tremendous gains. However, one startup involved in the bitcoin mining process recently revealed that their profits would have been even greater if more investors had believed in them four or five years ago. 
Bitfury — whose main mining operations can be found in the Republic of Georgia, Iceland, Canada, and Norway — recently had two representatives of the company, CEO Valery Vavilov and Vice Chairman of the Board George Kikvadze, appear on an episode of Laura Shin’s Unchained podcast. During the interview, the duo discussed the early days of the company’s development and how their mining operations work today. 
Eventually, Kikvadze revealed that Bitfury would be sitting on 860,000 bitcoin (roughly $6 billion worth) if they had been able to find big investors who believed in their technology when they were first starting out. 
 
  
Additionally, Vavilov and Kikvadze discussed a new development that should help them gain access to more capital for the acceleration of their mining business over the next few years. 
Missing Out on a Bitcoin Fortune 
According to Kikvadze, there are two main factors that decided whether any of the dozen or so bitcoin mining companies from the early days of the industry would be successful: execution on chip manufacturing and access to capital. Unfortunately for Bitfury, it was difficult for investors to figure out which startups had the best chance at building chips that could one day generate new bitcoin at a sufficiently profitable rate. 
 
“I think it was very tough for us to go and convince investors in Silicon Valley and other institutional investors to invest because they would see other companies coming in claiming they had better technology,” said Kikvadze. “We now know that all of these companies are extinct or pivoted away, but they have costed us a lot of traction and definitely have costed us a lot of resources in order to accelerate the deployment and global expansion.” 
One example of this sort of extinct or pivoted company is 21, which eventually changed their name to Earn.com. 21 was originally focused on the mass commoditization of bitcoin miners, but they pivoted to a service that allows people to get paid cryptocurrency for reading emails from people they don’t know. It’s unclear whether Earn.com is still involved in bitcoin mining in any capacity. 
According to Crunchbase, Earn.com has raised a total of $121.1 million from the likes of Andreessen Horowitz and Peter Thiel’s Founders Fund (among others).