
What the tech world needs right now is yet another accelerator in yet another city offering yet more support to entrepreneurs and and startups, right? 
Normally the question would be a resounding no. Accelerators abound and while the original idea was a fabulous one, emulation and imitation has certainly lowered the standard and efficiency of this startup culture. 
However, insert the word blockchain into the sentence and things take on a new shape. In this sector, there has been much business acceleration but without any real incubators or accelerators to nurture such startups. 
One new such accelerator is Status Incubate,  the first in a series of initiatives for Status Projects dedicated to laying the foundation and advancing the mass adoption of the so-called Web3 ecosystem.. 
 
  
 
  
   
  Status 
  
  
   
    
    Status Incubate wants to enrich the decentralized ecosystem. 
    
   
  
 
Status Incubate wants to foster an extensive ecosystem for the decentralized web from a wide range of areas, selecting a handful of startups each quarter including Ethereum-based projects, DApps, IoT, base-layer protocols, scaling solutions and others.  
 
The initiative will provide a range of services, including seed and Series A funding, legal and regulatory support, technical mentorship and other growth areas including research, marketing and creating a company culture of decentralized organization. 
Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis, with no deadline. Each application will be reviewed by the Status Incubate team to select the strongest projects for follow up interviews. Same as it ever was. 
"Status Incubate is focused on accelerating the development of the Web3 ecosystem. The initiative has been designed to provide the necessary guidance and support to help make the most compelling projects successful," said Ben Morris, Head of Status Incubate. 
The holding company is Status, an Ethereum-based app that gives users the power to chat, transact, and access a world of DApps while protecting users' privacy and building a community where anyone is welcome to join and contribute.