
 
 
  
   
  TheNextWeb 
  
  
   
    
     
    
   
  
 
There are a few commonly cited arguments on why it makes sense to build social media platforms on top of blockchains, and how these benefits will enable upstart social media protocols to displace incumbents. 
 
In this essay, I’ll make the case that despite the benefits of moving social media onto blockchains, it’s unlikely that this will happen, at least directly. I’ll then explore alternative options for blockchain-based social apps. 
The Problem: Incumbents Are Rent-Seekers 
Facebook, Google, Twitter, Reddit, and Snapchat unilaterally control their respective platforms. These companies generate billions in revenue by selling ads alongside user attention. Content creators generally don’t share in the profits from ad sales, except on YouTube and Twitch, where creators can share in profits, but only above certain thresholds, and even then YouTube and Twitch take 25-45% of ad revenues. 
One common argument for blockchain-powered social media states that by putting this content on blockchain, content creators can monetize their content directly (through a decentralized advertising exchange, tipping, or a Steemit-like upvoting system) and circumvent a middleman who extracts profits. 
 
  
But, in general, startup companies (and startup blockchain networks) shouldn’t go after incumbents who are protected by strong network effects head on. This has been demonstrated time and time again. For example, Google spent hundreds of millions on Google+ going after Facebook, with little to show for it. Facebook tried to grow Messenger into a Whatsapp competitor before capitulating and purchasing Whatsapp for a whopping $19B. Microsoft launched Windows Phone as a direct competitor to iOS and Android to no avail. 
To be fair, there are counter-examples. Perhaps the most successful recent example is Telegram, which, despite a late start, has grown into a juggernaut in the over-the-top messaging space despite facing competition from the likes of Whatsapp and Facebook Messenger. But these exceptions are truly rare. 
 
As much as I’d like to see a blockchain-based network displace the incumbent social networks, competing with them head on, even if powered by economic incentives on a blockchain, seems naive. Most consumers are content participating in these networks without being financially compensated. Facebook generates about $100 of revenue / user / year in the US (much lower elsewhere in the world). Telling people they’ll be paid $8-9 / month for posting pictures of their kids, friends, and pets doesn’t seem like the right way to get people on board. 
What then are the opportunities for blockchain-based social apps? Below I’ll outline three major types of opportunities. 
Building Communities Around Scarce Assets 
The very broad answer is that social apps that seek to build on blockchain need to explore novel social spaces that are uniquely enabled by blockchain. More specifically, there seems to be an opportunity to build social apps that leverage provably scarce items to drive engagement. Decentraland was the first example, and Cryptokitties more recently popularized the idea. 
Pokemon Go and Minecraft immediately come to mind as existing mainstream apps that should leverage blockchain in this capacity. 
It seems a bit crazy to project that people will want to own large numbers of unique cryptographic blobs of data that represent silly digital objects.  But actually, it’s not. We already know that people value scarce objects: see art, rare cars, and unique real estate. In time, arbitrary cryptographic blobs of data that represent arbitrary sets of on-screen pixels will come to be valued in the same way that arbitrary brush strokes on a canvas are. 
There is already a large economy for digital goods. People spend on the order of $50B annually on digital, in-game goods that are not provably scarce. These games support thriving, engaging communities. 
Developers will build thousands of apps around cryptographically-scrace digital assets. Dynamic, engaging communities and commerce will organically emerge in each community. Some of these will be tied to real-world phenomena, like reality TV, game shows, etc. Others will be built on fictional universes like Harry Potter. 
It’s not clear if it’s sensible to leverage these niches to try to compete more directly with incumbents such as Facebook, Reddit, and Twitter in broad-based self-expression (rather than around shared niches of interest). It may not be.