
 
  
   
  Photo courtesy of Leetchi Group.  
  
  
   
    
    Celine Lazorthes, founder of Leetchi and MangoPay. 
    
   
  

Ever want to pool funds for a party?
This is what prompted France’s Céline Lazorthes to found her first company in Paris back in 2008.
A student at the time, she was in charge of organizing a bonding weekend away for 40 of her peers, but could find no smart way to collect money.
So, she launched Leetchi: a way to process collaborative payments. 
Today it’s used by 10 million Europeans to do everything from pull together cash for birthday gifts and holidays, to funding charitable causes as a community. 
 
 
Recently, one man collected €80,000 (nearly $100k) from hundreds of donors who helped him access brain surgery he needed in the U.S..
“We should bring back emotions to what technology can do,” said Lazorthes of the inspiring ways customers are using her platform. "We’re trying to help people to better connect with each other.”
What Lazorthes didn’t predict was that Leetchi would also lead her to found another hugely successful business.
In 2013, she realized that Europe—and the world—was on the cusp of a digital finance revolution and that a vast number of other businesses would benefit from her technology. 

So she white-labeled her tools under her spin-off company MangoPay.
Today this is used by some of Europe's biggest marketplaces, crowdfunding sites and collaborative trading platforms. 
“MangoPay should have been launched by a bank because they all understood the market, but at that time, they weren't aware of the need to innovate,” recalls Lazorthes.  
“We had huge success at the very beginning even without any advertising or marketing, because the need was there - there wasn’t any payment solution dedicated to these kind of needs.”
 
  
   
  Photo courtesy of Leetchi Group.  
  
  
   
    
    The Leetchi team. 
    
   
  

MangoPay today
Today more than 2,000 platforms in Europe use MangoPay, including leading marketplace companies like Vinted, Depop, and La Redoute.
It already powers many crowdfunding platforms you’ll recognize like London’s SyndicateRoom, Edinburgh’s ShareIn, and the Paris-based KissKissBankBank.
And it supports collaborative services that invite customers to exchange a good or a service, such as The Food Assembly (also known as La Ruche qui dit Oui!).
“We want to help business offer a seamless experience, the feeling that the process is done quick and painlessly, in a way that’s transparent and secure,” says Lazorthes. 
Both Leetchi and MangoPay use a transactional business model: with Leetchi money is free to spend with partners like Amazon, but includes a 2.9% - 4% fee on other bank transfers, while MangoPay charges business a 1.8% fee plus €0.18 per transaction and is completely free to end users.
Leetchi has been profitable since 2014, processing a total of €1.2bn (nearly $1.5bn) across the Leetchi and Mangopay platforms last year, with a view to process €2bn ($2.4bn) in 2018.
 
  
   
  Photo by François Goglins (Own work), via Wikimedia Commons. 
  
  
   
    
    A Crédit Mutuel bank in France's Bretagne. 
    
   
  

Bought by a bank
The biggest change in recent years has been Leetchi’s (and MangoPay’s) acquisition by the French banking group Crédit Mutuel Arkéa.
Lazorthes had previously raised nearing $8m of investment, and was looking to raise another round of funding, when Crédit Mutuel Arkéa offered to shell out $56 million (€50 million) to acquire 86% of the company.
Lazorthes did her due diligence, calling other founders who’d been acquired by the group, and felt assured she could retain her independence.
“We were able to tell the owner that we wanted to remain really flexible in terms of management and day-to-day business,” says Lazorthes, who as CEO, now steers Leetchi and Mangopay decisions alongside her original team.
The founder also says her team’s benefited from having access to big company HR and lawyers, and a greater trust from more traditional clients. 
“It had been easy for us to work with startups and digital natives, but harder to work with brick-and-mortar businesses and more traditional companies,” Lazorthes explains. “The question we always got was ‘Hey, you are just a 2 or 3 years old, how can we be sure the pay will remain the same in the next 10 years?”
“What Crédit Mutuel Arkéa brought to MangoPay was more sustainable reputation.”
 
  
   
  Photo courtesy of OfficeVibe.  
  
  
   
    
    Lazorthes recommends OfficeVibe. 
    
   
  

What's next for Lazorthes?
Lazorthes says her aim now is to build a diverse and fair company that can develop new ways to make payments across Europe.
“There are hundreds more use cases, because the market is still in its very beginnings,” she explains, referencing the famous Mark Zuckerberg mantra: "If we don't create the thing that kills Facebook, someone else will".
“You have to reinvent yourself and challenge yourself to adapt to your customer all the time,” says Lazorthes.  
One way the founder is keeping at the cutting edge is by making investments of her own. 
“It keeps me learning every day, because you meet entrepreneurs, with different types of ideas and ways to address their market.”
The CEO of one company she’s invested in (and uses), called Talent.io, recommended an HR tool called Officevibe that allows employees give their bosses feedback.
“I thought it sounded so smart that I brought it to my company,” Lazorthes explains. 
Did Lazorthes imagine she’d be one of Europe’s leaders in finance, where she started sorting student parties all those years ago?
“It would never have been the field I’d have guessed myself to be in,” she confesses. 
“But there’s a reason there’s so much disruption today: everyone needs a bank, everyone needs payments, or bank cards, and it's a massive market and an interesting field to break the rules.”
Every student has broken the odd rule at a party. 
Now Lazorthes is tearing up Europe’s dusty finance rulebook too. 