
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    An employee uses a smartphone remote park assist system app to maneuver a Mercedes-Benz B-Class luxury automobile (Photographer: Andreas Arnold/Bloomberg) 
    
   
  
 
As per usual, there are plenty of important tech stories emerging from China this week. A car lost control, China’s government is regulating cryptocurrencies, and supply AI developments that will make it harder and harder for the West to compete. Here's what you need to know.  
Car Loses Control In China 
In China’s He Nan province, a Mercedes C200L lost control this week. The incident took place on the highway between He Nan and Shan Xi provinces (article in Chinese) where the driver was driving at 120km per hour and realized he could not slow down or stop the car. The driver was able to get in touch with highway patrol, which cleared a toll plaza of cars so the uncontrollable car could pass without hurting anyone. The driver was finally able to stop the vehicle after about 100km.  
The claim was that the car was on automated cruise control when it lost control, but in a statement, Mercedes-Benz in China says this particular C200 L model is not equipped with any autonomous assistant systems. The company is looking to conduct a vehicle inspection to understand what exactly transpired.  
 
  
WeChat Shuts Down Cryptocurrency Groups On Government Orders 
The world has gone crypto crazy and China is no exception. However, the market is still highly speculative, and many people have fallen victim to crypto scams. This issue is already being addressed in the West where Twitter, Google, and Facebook have all banned crypto advertisements, specifically for initial coin offerings or ICOs. This week, China followed suit with their largest social network, WeChat. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Ma Huateng, chairman and chief executive officer of Tencent Holdings Ltd., speaks during a news conference in Beijing (Qilai Shen/Bloomberg) 
    
   
  
 
 
The most well-known WeChat cryptocurrency group was called 3 o’clock. A lot of famous people were in this group and they discussed ICOs, blockchain technologies, and related business opportunities. A host of fake 3 o’clock chat groups also popped up, imitating the original group and many users were tricked into investing money that they later lost. Some of these fake groups even charged a fee to join. 
In the West, Telegram is the primary messaging platform for cryptocurrency traders. Conversations are encrypted and the app is not influenced by any singular government or party. In China, however, no such app exists. 
Pony Ma, CEO of WeChat's parent company Tencent, was in attendance at the government’s recent "Two Sessions" annual meetings where blockchain and cryptocurrencies were high on the agenda. The Chinese government requested that WeChat shut these crypto groups down (article in Chinese) and Tencent complied, but Ma noted that he is "optimistic about blockchain’s potential for document and identity verification" among other use cases. 
Artificial Intelligence Can Manufacture Suits On The Fly 
If you haven’t had your body 3D scanned yet, don’t worry, it will happen sooner than you might think. This technology started out as a way to bring your real body into the digital world, but now, 3D scanning technology (combined with artificial intelligence) is entering the mainstream. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Suits are displayed at a tailor's store in a fabric market in Shanghai, China (Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg) 
    
   
  
 
Chinese company YiHu this week announced a new AI-powered suit tailoring service that allows users to order custom fitted suits from the convenience of their home. They have partnered with the same factories that make Armani, Boss, and Burberry so users can get the best quality at a fraction of the cost. 
The technology is based on 10 years of body measurement data and decades of fabric knowledge. YiHu combines these two data sets and then trains its AI to create incredibly precise 3D renders of their users’ bodies from 2D images captures on a cell phone. A user simply takes an image from the front and a second image from the side and  the AI spits out a 3D model of the user that is accurate within 1-2 cm if wearing a t-shirt and 1 cm if wearing tight clothing .  
YiHu’s technology goes a step further and will show your 3D body scan with the suits and styles of your choosing right within the app. Want to change the collar or cuff style? No problem. Want to change the fabric or finish, just click and you can see exactly what it will look like. You can then order from the top factories in China that make all the big brand names in the West. 
This integration of China's supply chain with modern technologies like AI will make it difficult for any Western company, or indeed any traditional tailor, to compete. 
That's it for this week in China Tech. If you have any stories you think we should cover next week, feel free to message me and make sure to check back for more stories coming from China next week! 
Correction: This article has been updated to reflect that the Mercedes C200L, which lost control this week in China, was not equipped with any autonomous assistant system, per a statement from Mercedes-Benz in China. It also stated that the company tried to regain control of the car remotely after the driver contacted Mercedes-Benz but it says it does not possess the backend technology to interfere with driving.