
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    A package containing a Green Dot Corp. Visa Inc. debit card is arranged for a photograph in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Thursday, Feb. 15, 2018. Green Dot is expected to release earnings figures on February 21. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
    
   
  
 
Visa is scheduled to release earnings after Wednesday's close. The stock just hit a record high of $126.88/share and is trading near $120/share. The stock is prone to big moves after reporting earnings and can easily gap up if the numbers are strong. Conversely, if the numbers disappoint, the stock can easily gap down. To help you prepare, here is what the Street is expecting: 
 
  
   
    
     
     
     
    
    
     
     Gallery 
     
    7 Ways To Improve Your Credit Score Fast 
     
     Launch Gallery 
     
       8 images 
      
     
     
    
  
 
Earnings Preview:  
Visa is expected to report $1.01/share on $4.78 billion in revenue. Meanwhile, the so-called Whisper number is $1.04. The Whisper number is the Street's unofficial view on earnings. 
 
  
Company Profile & Various Businesses: 
Here is a brief company profile courtesy of Thomson Reuters Eikon: 
Visa Inc. (Visa), incorporated on May 25, 2007, is a payments technology company that connects consumers, merchants, financial institutions, businesses, strategic partners and government entities to electronic payments. The Company operates through payment services segment. The Company enables global commerce through the transfer of value and information among the participants. The Company's transaction processing network facilitates authorization, clearing and settlement of payment transactions and enables to provide its financial institution and merchant clients a range of products, platforms and value-added services. The Company is a retail electronic payment network based on payments volume, number of transactions and number of cards in circulation. The Company operates in party models, which include card issuing financial institutions, acquirers and merchants. The Company's products/services include core products, processing infrastructure, transaction processing services, digital products, merchant products, and risk products and payment security initiatives. 
