
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Bitcoin has been struggling below $7,000 as crypto faces difficulties. Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
Bitcoin prices fluctuated south of $7,000 today, trading below this level as the broader digital currency space faces numerous headwinds. 
The cryptocurrency fell to as little as $6,583.85 earlier, according to the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (BPI). 
The digital asset bounced back later, rising to $6,918.70, additional BPI figures show. 
[Ed note: Investing in cryptocoins or tokens is highly speculative and the market is largely unregulated. Anyone considering it should be prepared to lose their entire investment.] 
Bitcoin's Recent Decline 
Bitcoin has fallen more than 60% from the all-time high it reached in December, when it climbed to nearly $20,000 on CoinDesk's BPI. 
 
  
The digital currency has experienced both sharp declines and notable recoveries in that time, falling below $6,000 in early February and then climbing its way to almost $12,000 later that month. 
The cryptocurrency suffered additional volatility since then, fluctuating between $6,500 and $7,500 for much of the last week. 
When explaining why Bitcoin has experienced weakness lately, analysts pointed to several factors. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Analysts singled out regulatory uncertainty as a major headwind for crypto. Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
 
Regulatory Uncertainty 
Numerous market observers cited uncertainty surrounding cryptocurrency's regulatory landscape as a significant driver of Bitcoin's recent price movements. 
James Song, founder and CEO of blockchain startup ExsulCoin, spoke to these developments, stating that "There has been lots of selling driven by uncertainty around bitcoin's regulatory environment."  
Tim Enneking, managing director of Crypto Asset Management, emphasized that while recent U.S. regulatory developments have placed downward pressure on Bitcoin, other nations, for example Switzerland, have provided more bullish regulatory updates. 
Should the broader cryptocurrency market achieve greater clarity in terms of regulation, it could help draw institutional investors back to digital assets, claimed Jeff Koyen, CEO of 360 Blockchain USA. 
However, Koyen emphasized that this isn't all that is needed for these financial institutions to get involved with cryptocurrencies. 
Fund Hopes 
In addition, there must be "hope" that regulators will approve an exchange-traded fund (ETF) granting exposure to Bitcoin, he stated. 
"Wall St is waiting in the wings until they're confident — if not certain — that more traditional vehicles will be made available, such as an ETF." 
Seeing as how all attempts at receiving approval for Bitcoin ETFs have failed, it is highly uncertain if and when such a security will ever exist. 
Natural Market Reaction 
While Bitcoin's price has been trading far below its all-time high of nearly $20,000 lately, the cryptocurrency is experiencing a normal 'fallback and consolidation" after the sharp gains it experienced in 2017, stated Enneking. 
Last year, Bitcoin rose from less than $1,000 in January to $19,783 in December, according to the CoinDesk BPI. 
The total value of the broader digital currency market also rose sharply, climbing from less than $20 billion to more than $600 billion during 2017. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Tax season could be a major factor pushing bitcoin prices lower. Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
Tax Season 
After cryptocurrencies experienced these robust increases, many market participants had to sell some of their holdings simply to keep up with their tax liabilities, said analysts. 
This activity is placing "huge, downward pressure" on gains, said Enneking. 
Because of U.S. tax season, many investors are "evaluating their portfolios and determining which assets have value and whether or not it's time to reallocate," said Sebastião Coelho, CMO of Flashmoni, a blockchain company creating financial solutions for the unbanked and underbanked. 
Predicting A Bottom 
As Bitcoin continues to trade below its all-time high, Enneking put in a bottom around $6,000.  
Koyen singled out the exact same price level, stating: 
 
 Considering the battering that bitcoin has faced in the past few weeks, finding support at $6,000 is actually impressive. Some people are eyeing $3,000 as the eventual bottom. I'm not so sure. I think we'll go sideways in this neighborhood — that is, plus-minus $1,000 — before picking up again. 
 
Disclosure: I own some Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash and Ether.