
 
            
            
                              
                              
              
              
              
                Services  
              
              
                                
                    
                       
                      
                        9 mins ago    |
                          By Avi Mizrahi -   |
                          684                                                                    
                      
                        Coinsource Installs 20 Bitcoin ATM Machines Around Washington DC                                              
                    
                                      
                    
                        

            


Buying cryptocurrency has just become easier for all residents of the US capital, as the American bitcoin ATM network, Coinsource, has now expanded into the Washington DC metropolitan area. With this latest installment, the company now boasts of operating almost 200 machines across the US.
Also Read: Malta Attracts Cryptocurrency Exchange Okex
Crypto Capital
Coinsource, Texas-based bitcoin ATM network, has announced its first entry into the American capital. The company will install twenty machines across the District of Columbia and Maryland, saying it received significant demand from local users and merchants. The machines will be spread in convenient locations across the area, including a dozen in Washington DC, five in Baltimore, one in Towson, one in Oxon Hill, and one in Takoma Park.
Before this development, the city already had about five machines being serviced by five different operators. Additionally, several local restaurants, bookshops, and record shops have been accepting bitcoin as payment since last year.
“We are meeting Washington D.C. at an inflection point, where regulators are looking at the value and potential of decentralized currencies and blockchain technology,” said CEO of Coinsource Sheffield Clark. “All innovation over time has passed through our Nation’s Capital in one way or another, and we are happy to be now servicing Washington D.C. and the surrounding communities so that they can have easy access to buying and selling Bitcoin.”
Bitcoin Nation
The DC installation caps off a quarter of growth for the company after launching 10 machines in Rhode Island, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts in early February. Additionally, Coinsource introduced eight new machines in Denver, Colorado earlier this month. Coinsource currently has 182 machines across 18 American states, plus the District of Columbia.
CMO of Coinsource, Bobby Sharp, said, “We are expanding the Bitcoin ATM market further than it’s ever been in D.C., offering the lowest rates, exclusive remote enrollment and allowing for at-home account registration. This installment is especially significant to Coinsource, as the philosophy behind decentralized currency is and has always been about giving freedom back to the people. As a company I feel that we have been able to provide financial freedom to the underbanked and unbanked, and I am happy to bring our services to D.C.”
Which American politicians are going to be among the customers of these ATMs? Share your thoughts in the comments section below. 

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Do you agree with us that Bitcoin is the best invention since sliced bread? Thought so. That’s why we are building this online universe revolving around anything and everything Bitcoin. We have a store. And a forum. And a casino, a pool and real-time price statistics.

        