
For those contemplating retirement—who isn't these days—the idea of a fast-appreciating investment might be music to your ears. 
But should you have Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies in your Individual Retirement Account (IRA)? After all, what's not to like since Bitcoin gained some 1,200% last year? Wouldn't that create a nest egg in no time? 
Hold onto your wallet. Cryptocurrencies are shamelessly volatile. Bitcoin has lost more than half of its value this year and may be headed further south. No one really knows which digital currency will prevail over time. 
So doesn't that argue for holding a broad portfolio of cryptocurrencies? Diversify and spread around the risk? If such a vehicle existed in a mutual fund or low-cost exchange-traded fund existed, I would say give it a whirl. But regulators have yet to greenlight such a thing. 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
Mark Miller, a Reuters columnist and author of  "Jolt: Stories of Trauma and Transformation," notes that although self-directed IRAs allow you a lot of latitude to invest in cryptos, there are serious issues you should understand before you make the plunge: 
 
"Aside from their volatility, cryptocurrencies trade on unregulated online exchanges," Miller writes. "Many have been plagued by technical problems and hacks, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission warned investors to be wary of fraudulent `pump and dump' schemes." 
Also keep in mind that IRA custodians, the institutions that hold the retirement vehicle, typically don't have any obligation to vet any investments going inside a self-directed IRA, which can shelter anything from bonds to real estate. 
Note: Although you can't put coins or insurance products in an IRA, cryptos are okay for the time being. 
While the blockchain technology behind Bitcoin may change finance in a profound way, there are thousands of companies in the business. 
Picking a winner is going to be difficult and it's hard to know which company will be a dominant player. Like anything else in the technology realm, most will come up short. 
For the interim, resist jumping into cryptocurrencies unless you have enough information to understand their potential downside. There's a reason why Google is banning cryptocurrency advertising. There may be a way too much sizzle and not much steak. 
Ultimately, what makes for a good investment falls under the Warren Buffet rule: "If I don't understand it, I won't invest in it." That's always a good place to start.