
I've been following Bitcoin's price as a curiosity, mainly to watch what happens to a new type of investment, being one that is utterly lacking in anything like fundamental value but instead is just pure speculation. 
As one might expect from such an investment, Bitcoin has been extremely volatile. The highs and lows of Bitcoin may be tracked in six distinct periods where market momentum shifted: 
November 12 (5,943) to December 17, 2017 (19,198); gain of 223% -- Bitcoinmania takes over, and the now-infamous Bitcoin Bubble developed. 
December 17 (19,198) to December 30, 2017 (12,641); loss of 34% -- The Bitcoin Bubble finally bursts. 
December 17, 2017 (12,641) to January 7, 2018 (17,075); gain of 35% -- Investors who missed the Bubble run-up jump in and look for Bitcoin to take off again. 
January 7 (17,075) to February 5, 2018 (6,981); loss of 59% -- Institutional investors start to pull out, leading Bitcoin to take its worst percentage loss. 
 
  
February 5 (6,981) to March 4, 2018 (11,462); gain of 64% -- Small investors and day-traders who make money off volatility push Bitcoin's price back up somewhat. 
March 4 (11,462) to March 29, 2018 (6,859); loss of 40% -- Most recent (and current as of this writing) bear market. 
Bitcoin's chart now looks almost identical to the Dot-Com Bubble chart, which was similarly volatile -- in a downward direction -- after that bubble finally burst. 
 
Suffice it to say that bears have had the better part of this deal. If one takes out the 223% run-up when the Bitcoin Bubble was building, the bulls have had two increases of 35% and 64% while the bears have seen drops of 34%, 59% and 40%. 
Unlike an ordinary business enterprise which, despite a low stock price, can increase its fundamentals by increasing is sales and profit margins, etc., Bitcoin doesn't have that luxury because it has no fundamental value. 
Very simply, a unit of Bitcoin will not increase in price because the underlying blockchain technology becomes more widely used, since neither Bitcoin nor an owner of Bitcoin has any patent rights to that technology nor derives income from it. Similarly, even if Bitcoin becomes more widely accepted as a payment system, this may inure to the convenience of using Bitcoin, but it doesn't ipso facto mean that Bitcoin's price will increase. There is also the cost of using Bitcoin, i.e., the relatively high cost of converting government currency into Bitcoin by the user, and the similar cost of a merchant in re-converting Bitcoin to government currency which is then passed on to the consumer. 
In other words, the fundamental price of Bitcoin is near zero, if not a negative. Since the price of an investment over time tends towards its fundamentals, that means that the price of Bitcoin will keep doing what it has been doing since the Bitcoin Bubble burst, which is tending towards zero. 
Yet, as with all bubbles, there are still investors who are willing to throw "good money after bad" into Bitcoin, being the true believers who think that Bitcoin may someday hit the moon in prices, or, probably more often, are investing further in the hopes that they can at least make their losses back before they finally get out. 
All of this creates what can only be described as a dream investment for bears, which is an investment that over the long term is likely to head lower and lower and lower, until some very low number is reached, but still has folks pumping money into it for whatever misguided reason. Even if the price goes up in the short term, those shorting Bitcoin can be pretty comfortable that within a relatively short time it will go right back down again, and the day may finally come when it goes down for the count. 
The high volatility of Bitcoin also poses problems for merchants who are thinking about accepting Bitcoin for payment, since if for whatever reason they can't reconvert Bitcoin to a government currency more-of-less immediately, then they risk severe ups and downs in the price, with the trend being downwards. This may not affect situations where payment and re-conversion to government currency is simultaneous, such as individual purchases of goods and services, but it may be a significant deterrence to larger commercial contracts. For instance, what merchant would want to enter into a 30-day contract for something that is paid in Bitcoin upon delivery, when in that 30 days the price of Bitcoin could decrease by 40%?