
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
Operating in an industry with individuals who claim to have the knowledge of how to disrupt the space is something we all need to gravitate our attention towards. Why? Those who don’t have the experience or level of expertise necessary to help grow the business is problematic and troubling," says Justin Wu, block-chain evangelist and growth hacker with CoinCircle. 
Wu believes that advisers can 'accelerate' through the entire process of building a crypto-venture. Why? Running a token sale requires covering a multitude of bases. "For example, you’re looking at token economics, crowd sales, legal knowledge, and even utilizing smart contracts," Wu explained. Bringing in a team of advisers allows innovators and industry whales to help place the pieces across the board and understand how these connections work; all while having the proper guidance along the way. 
Depending on the background of the advisor(s), quick mentorship can happen. The more an entrepreneur inundates themselves in the space and understands it more than the average joe, the more credibility you will ascertain. 
 
  
Bridging The Gap 
“The industry is really lacking maturity still,” says Wu. There are many young players out there that claim to have expertise in an area that nobody understands...yet. 
Wu’ believes that everyone is in the same boat, in that “everyone is still green;” not having very many true experts in the space. With a new industry, there are always bad actors who enter into the space and prey on new players’ vulnerabilities and inexperience. The space needs more mature players from different industries and fields to come in, collaborate, and unite the marketplace. Otherwise, the space is just comprised of inexperienced, young investors who are promising to change things, with no real understanding or experience in how to execute that. 
 
By taking people at their word initially, all we ever have is a promise to do something. Executing on that promise is an entirely different conversation. I 
Beyond The Whitepaper Lies An Inability To Provide Real-World Context 
The problem with many token sales and even post-ICO’s is that there is still a lack of real-world context. A majority of the time, the company or token doesn’t have the experience, contacts, or any real ability to connect the dots in whatever industry it promises to enhance. Whether it's e-commerce, real estate, or art, you have to ask the right questions. Take e-commerce for example, does the team behind the venture or token, even have e-commerce experience to connect those dots in the real world?” asked Wu. They can build whatever tools they need, but if they don’t have the experience in the industry, then those tools are ultimately worthless. 
Another question Wu presented was whether these companies have the necessary ‘buy-in’ from major players in the space? Wu has come across many individuals since he’s entered the space, most notably with CoinCircle’s partnership with Unikrn Gold, the world’s top regulated e-sports betting platform, and Shark Tank investor, Mark Cuban. 
A Lack of User Acquisition, Leads To A Failure In Execution 
At the end of the day, the goal is to have user acquisition. But, that’s not what we are seeing today. Instead, we have early investor rails monitoring their token, with no real utility as promised. Thus, there is no execution and everyone whose invested is now out money, that they will probably never see again. 
Wu and I agreed that when entering the space, it starts by analyzing a venture the same as you would any other investment or startup. You can build a great application, but if you can’t provide real-world experience, context, and utility, then you can’t break through the space, regardless of how much money you’ve raised. That’s the big issue with the majority of these tokens launched. 
Uniting The Global Marketplace 
We are now seeing a potential flip in a lot of different industries, and disruption in these industries with individuals starting to focus on owning their data, giving and trading value, and of course, the creation of that value. 
Blockchain has incentivized people to be more collaborative across industries and in aspects of the world. The intersection of blockchain with cryptocurrency has started to unite global markets, despite the difference in operations, e.g. fintech, regtech, and so on. 
“The best way to know if a promise is real, is to go and find those people working on meaningful blockchain projects, says Wu.  This past year alone, Wu has targeted protocol and core developers, allowing him to be closer to reality and farther away from the hype. Go to events like hack-a-thon's, meet people who are working on these projects, and find out who is involved. 
As Public Enemy once rapped, "don't believe the hype."