
 
  
   
  Shutterstock / Paint 
  
  
   
    
    Dang it Jeff. Pornhub accepts Verge now. 
    
   
  
 
Pornhub, the website you always happen to have open when your mom calls, is now accepting cryptocurrency payments in the form of Verge (XVG), cryptocurrency apparently improved upon the original Bitcoin blockchain. Clearly at some point in this advanced future of decentralized payment systems and easily accessible porn the two technologies would find a way to intermingle. Cryptocurrency, for all its volatility is still a space that your blockchain bros are encouraging further investment. In this case, Pornhub is just accepting the crypto, not bro-ing out with you about it while referring to your dragon pattern vest as tasty. 
Frankly, when it comes to cryptocurrency, it is hard to tell what is going on. Some still suggest that even with a lag in price, investors still want in on the Bitcoin. Yet others believe we need to shut it all down. I suppose the same could be said for the porn industry as well. Without even needing supporting links, some want in, and some want to shut it all down. You know who is on each side of that community uploaded wall. 
Also see: Facebook Sucks At Regulating Tobacco Ads, Unrelated: Teens Like To Vape 
 
  
Here's the details of this cryptocurrency and Pornhub mashup. It's really simple and frankly, about as inevitable as the time Pornhub started a snow plow business — it just makes sense. Beginning today, Pornhub will accept Verge as a payment option for all Pornhub purchases such as Pornhub premium, HD and on-demand services and merchandising, but not recurring subscriptions. The reason for that should be obvious but I'll state it anyway — because of the inherent risk of the volatility of the price of cryptocurrencies. 
"The volatility of crypto is concerning for subscriptions with recurring payments," says Corey Price, VP of Pornhub via email. "As such, at present, we aren't offering it for recurring payments, though we are in the process of working to do so." Price also noted that "our services have fixed prices in fiat so the value in cryptocurrency will change". 
 
This mystery partnership caused the price of Verge to skyrocket this week, and it will surely go up as this news breaks around the internet. You see, if you haven't noticed by now — once the porn industry embraces a technology, that technology tends to begin to thrive. It's too early to tell if this will set Verge up for success previously experienced by Bitcoin and Ethereum, but it will certainly shake up the cryptocurrency world as investors see Verge succeed as the chosen payment option of an industry that tends to set the curve. 
Pornhub has released this (SFW) promotional video to show what the future will look like under the Pornhub and Verge cryptocurrency collaboration. 
 
  
 
“Here at Pornhub, we have always strongly valued innovation and privacy. Over the past couple of years we've launched Virtual Reality (VR), to provide our users with the most immersive experience possible; a Bug Bounty program, which offers monetary rewards to security researchers for finding bugs on our platform; and HTTPS, to provide a more secure user experience. Our acceptance of Verge is an affirmation of our dedication to innovation and privacy, which recently has caused much concern and been at the forefront of all tech consumers' minds," said Price in a press release. "Were extremely excited to offer our fans the ability to use crypto and think Verge, with its focus on anonymity, is the best option – whether for privacy, convenience or both!" 
In addition to Pornhub, sister site Brazzers as well as adult gaming site Nataku will also be accepting Verge payments. This move by Pornhub will most likely affect market adoption of not only Verge, but cyrptocurrencies as a whole. Or at least, change some perceptions about the use of crypto for payments. If nothing else, it'll make people wonder about the use of Verge specifically. 
Unlike many of its peers, Verge doesn't use cryptography (as much) to become an anonymous cryptocurrency. Instead, it uses Tor and I2P network to achieve that sweet, sweet anonymity. This slight shift in procedure could influence the next generation of Blockchain bros as they develop their mostly useless and repetitive ICOs. 
As to why partner with Pornhub, Verge had that plan from the beginning, soliciting donations with this end game in mind. "Pornhub is a global organization with nearly a hundred million daily users," said Verge founder Justin Sunerok. "This partnership represents an enormous market with a global reach that will compete with fiat currencies. It's huge for Verge and we’re extremely excited to finally be able to announce it." 
Price also later mentioned that other cryptocurrencies would be considered in the future, noting that Verge was highly suggested by users. The security offered by Verge is a good starting point for not only Pornhub, but for the future of cryptocurrency adoption across all industries. 
 
  
   
    
     
     
     
    
    
     
     Gallery 
     
    43 Sports Cartoons That Are Gonna Be A Battle Of Epic Proportions 
     
     Launch Gallery 
     
       44 images 
      
     
     
    
  
