
What to make of the intense interest in Bitcoin and the S&P 500 
 
  
   
  Adobe Stock 
  
  
   
    
     
    
   
  
 
I spend a lot of time looking for evidence.  Evidence about market direction, market health, emerging trends in sectors and industries, and companies temporarily “down on their luck” with investors.  As part of that evidence-hunting, I scout a series of common sentiment indicators, and have created a few of my own which my team and I use to make decisions for the portfolios we manage.  I just devised a new sentiment indicator, a very personal one, and I think it tells a lot about where investors’ heads are at, especially those who read Forbes.com (which are, of course, the wisest of investors). 
The sentiment indicator I created simply tracks the readership of the articles I write for Forbes over the previous six months, grouped into several different categories.  In particular, I pay attention to the implication and content of the article’s title.  This might sound really sophomoric, but read on and give it a chance.  I think you will see why I believe it has a message for us. 
 
  
The five most popular articles of the 26 I have published during the past six months all have something in common: their titles contain the words “Bitcoin” or “S&P 500.”  I wrote three articles about each, though in reality I never really wrote about Bitcoin, other than to say that it was being over-hyped and that I am concerned that people may be diverting their attention from their true objectives to try to get their share of the market’s newest shiny object.  The S&P 500 is a popular subject these days because many investors, especially those who have started to invest significant amounts of money (for them) in the past decade have come to regard the S&P 500 as “the stock market.”  It really isn’t, but I will let you file through my articles to see what I mean. 
Bitcoin and S&P 500, the two magic phrases in my sentiment indicator, accounted for roughly 3/4 of the ENTIRE number of views for all my articles over the past 6 months.  You have heard of the 80/20 rule?  This is essentially my own 80/20 rule, in that nearly 80% of the readership was focused on about 20% of the articles.  Now, we could dissect it further and see if factors such as the date and time of the week we posted the articles, the state of the markets at the time we posted, and other technical factors played a role.  But it is a basic conclusion I am drawing here, which can be boiled down to a single word: group-think.  That’s the urge to take part in something because it is popular, and because it feels more comfortable to do so, since “everyone is doing it.”  How else do you explain why parents are asking their kids about Bitcoin with deep curiosity?  While I applaud the fact that the generations now have something to talk about other than family infighting and politics, concerning anecdotal stories abound.  The same goes for the S&P 500 infatuation, which has blinded investors to the idea that past performance is a reliable indicator of future performance, when the opposite is most often true. 
 
So, Bitcoin was the most popular drawing card for your collective eyeballs the past 6 months, and S&P 500 was the runner-up.  What other observations can we make about this sentiment indicator, which I will unofficially dub the Forbes-Isbitts pageview indicator, or FIV Indicator for short.  I know, not very memorable, but I digress. 
Here’s a group of vital topics for investors to understand in today’s market environment: 
 
 The end of the nearly four decades old bull market in bonds 
 The 1987 stock market crash, and some eerie similarities to today’s market activity and issues 
 Dividend stocks behaving very differently than they have done traditionally 
 Technical chart patterns of major market indexes that may provide insight into the reward and risk tradeoff for investors in the current environment 
 
These 4 topics, all of which are essential for you to understand if any of the major threats to the currently buoyant investment climate, have met with a collective yawn from readers the past 6 months.  Together, the 5 articles on these topics garnered about 1/10 the readership of the 3 articles that in some way touched on Bitcoin.  And they were less than 1/5 the readership of the S&P 500 articles I mentioned above.  Wow.