
 
  
   
  Photo courtesy of Pauline Frommer 
  
  
   
    
    Budget travel expert Pauline Frommer, ziplining in Whistler. 
    
   
  

One of the the world's foremost experts on budget travel, Pauline Frommer learned the ticks of the trade from her parents, Arthur Frommer and Hope Arthur, who would go to Europe every year to research and write the legendary guidebook series Europe on $5 a Day. "I was born into travel," she says.
Following in her parents' footsteps, Frommer has dedicated her career to helping consumers get the most out of their vacation dollars. "When you save money, you get closer to the local life, and you can travel more," says Frommer. "What's better than that?"
She is acting co-president for FrommerMedia, along with her father, and is also the editorial director for the Frommer's Guidebooks and Frommers.com. Her own series of guidebooks were named “Best Guidebook of the Year” by the North American Travel Journalist Association in 2006, 2007 and 2008.
 
 
We caught up with Frommer to get her top tips for saving money on travel.
Time Your Travel Strategically. You want to travel when other people aren’t traveling. But when is that? The easy answer — when kids are in school. If you're a parent, that can be problematic. But if you're not, that's when you should be traveling.
Go Rogue. Make sure that the industry isn't taking advantage of you. Right now, we do a lot of booking online, and corporations watch our habits. So you want to make yourself as invisible online as possible when you are buying travel products. That means getting rid of your cookies and your history if you do airfare searches. That means changing servers when you're looking for travel information. This can create major savings. 

 
  
   
  Photo courtesy of Pauline Frommer 
  
  
   
    
    Frommer, in Morocco with her daughters Veronica and Beatrix. 
    
   
  

Be Careful When You Book.  It's not an urban myth that there's a best time to book airline tickets. Statistically, if you book your airfare on a weekend you save 19%. Why is that? It’s somewhat of a mystery. My guess is that corporate travel agents work during the week, so they know you’re not a business traveler.
Don't Be Tricked By Budget Airfare. Everybody wants to save money on airfares — but not all airfares are built alike. There’s one called "basic economy." We did a study at Frommers.com, and it usually only works out to a saving of $25. And on most of these basic economy tickets, you cannot bring a carry-on bag into the cabin. How much does it cost to check a bag? $25. So it's a shell game. Plus, these tickets have all kinds of terrible restrictions. You never get to choose your seats. You never get to cancel or change the seat. You don't get loyalty points. You get on the plane last. Be careful about basic economy.
Save On Car Rental. My favorite website for auto rentals is AutoSlash.com. They've been around for a decade, but for awhile they went underground because they were creating prices that were so competitive that the rental car companies weren't taking their reservations. Now they no longer give you instant pricing; they send you an email with it. But what AutoSlash does is to apply every possible coupon code to your auto rental discount, and that can save you tons of money. If the price of your rental drops — and that's very common — they will rebook you.
Save On Cruises. Cruises as a type of vacation are actually pretty affordable, but once you get onboard they will try and upsell you everything. Some cruise lines charge for soda. Port excursions are incredibly overpriced. There are some organizations that will sell you the same excursions, but instead of being with 40 people in a bus, you're with 20 people in a van. You can see more, and you spend a third less. Check out CruisingExcursions.com and ShoreTrips.com. There's also Viator.com, which offers some port excursions. The main time when people overspend on cruises is onboard: the casino, the spa. To save money on cruises, you have to have willpower. 
 
  
   
  Photo courtesy of Pauline Frommer 
  
  
   
    
    In Ireland. 
    
   
  

Save On Hotels. The best way to save on accommodations? Book directly with the hotel — and usually, you will pay the least through their loyalty programs. Look at sites like HotelsCombined.com or Kayak.com, which survey all the hotels out there, then go to the hotel website's loyalty area, and see if you can save money. When we did a study at Frommers.com, we found that you always saved this way. Sometimes it was $1, but sometimes it was $50.
Save On Tours.  Often the best tours you can get in town are absolutely free. Yes, you have to tip at the end, but that means they’re going to be very compelling. There are starving graduate students all over the world who are running the most wonderful, erudite, interesting walking tours. Just search in a guidebook or online.
Pack Smart. My top packing tip is to only own carry-on bags — that way you never overpack. Sometimes you have to roll things, sometimes you have to make hard choices, but if you forget something you get to shop and that’s always fun.
Work Abroad. If you’re a person under the age of 26, there is a program through the E.U. and the U.S. government that allows you to work legally in Europe. You have to get the job yourself, but this way you can work and travel all over Europe.