
Jimmy Song is one of the most well known members of the Bitcoin community. For the majority of his career, Song worked as a software developer for a wide array of companies in different fields including entertainment, healthcare, e-commerce, etc. In 2014, he joined Monetas where he lead the development of Bitcoin integration with open transactions for almost a year. After managing the development of a business friendly Bitcoin wallet for Armory Technologies, Song became the Principal Architect for Paxos creating blockchain solutions for institutional entities. 
 
  
   
  Blockchain Capital 
  
  
   
    
    Jimmy Song venture partner at Blockchain Capital 
    
   
  
 
Song runs Programming Blockchain, a for-profit company that's training students all around the world in blockchain programming and development techniques, and in January, he joined Blockchain Capital as a Venture Partner. 
We met during TOKEN2049 to discuss the state cryptocurrency finds itself in: 
Omri Barzilay: Jimmy, you have been involved in the blockchain space for quite a long time. What initially attracted you to the space? 
 
  
Jimmy Song: I got into the space in 2011. I was reading this nerdy website, when Bitcoin had just broken $1. That's when I first started out. I still remember reading the article and saying, what the hell is Bitcoin and why is it important that it broke a dollar? And that started a journey for me because like you know, I'm a tech guy. I was like, okay, I’ve got to know what the hell this thing is and I started investigating. I found out that it had a 21 million limit and immediately realized, like a lot of other Bitcoiners, OK, I don't know if this thing's going to take off or not but if it does then I better be one of the first people to get in on it. So… 
Barzilay: What were you doing at the time? 
Song: I've been a developer for 20 years, so back then I had 15 years of developer experience. I looked at the bitcoin and tried to buy it with PayPal or something and you couldn't do it, it was nearly impossible. The only place you could buy it at the time was Mt. Gox. It got too annoying to do so I just said forget about it. I did end up investing later that year through Mt. Gox. It was very annoying but I finally felt like I had to do it. 
 
Barzilay: What got you into Bitcoin development? 
Song: Well, so 2013, I got into it again because, you know, the price was going up and stuff and one of my friends told me “Hey you should get your money out” and I was like, “All right,” to this day I’m very grateful to him. Then I realized I should get a wallet, started investigating and found armory which is interesting because I ended up working there as VP of engineering. 
I got into Bitcoin development because I was kind of frustrated at what was going on and I wanted to contribute more and earn Bitcoin and stuff like that so, yeah, I got into development in 2013 and have been doing it ever since. 
Barzilay: Since than, have you invested in other coins? 
Song: I think I bought a little bit of Litecoin in 2013 and maybe a little bit of Namecoin around then, but, I think you could characterize me as a Bitcoin maximalist. I don't see other coins as necessarily having that much value. I believe in the pro rata distribution for this sort of thing. I may be wrong, but that's kind of where I stand, you know, but yeah I think I don't have that like coin anymore but yeah, I did buy in 2013. 
Barzilay: You recently joined Blockchain Capital, what is your role there? 
Song: I'm not as involved in the investing decisions yet, I'm more involved in the sort of technical due diligence starting the labs project, so to date I haven't really invested in my ICO’s and it's in large part because I'm not sure the business model necessarily makes sense, at least for utility tokens. Equity tokens I can kind of see the argument for because you want to give liquidity to the people that own it and this might be a decent way to do it.  For utility tokens it's something that I'm not sure I really have seen a good use case where it's actually worked . 
Barzilay: As a tech person, which companies in the space do you think are developing something substantial? 
Song: Well I mean obviously Blockstream and Chaincode labs. They do a lot of stuff and they're technically very strong. There are lots of other companies that are in the Bitcoin space but they aren't necessarily what I would call technically proficient, I mean they may be but at least, from the evidence that I've seen they tend to fall apart when they start to scale which, you know, sort of looking from the outside, you can say ok, well maybe they didn't build the infrastructure that well. I’d say bit-go is pretty good as well, yeah, I mean those are three companies that I can definitely say are very strong technically. 
Barzilay: And what is your take on private blockchains? 
Song: Well, it depends on what you mean by blockchain, right? Like if you mean, block chain in the full sense which is what Bitcoin is, decentralized, there's no single point of failure, everyone has a copy of this database that we call a blockchain and everyone validates everything, everyone has to know about every thing. I don't think there are use cases in the private sphere that make sense for that much data being validated that fast, but I mean who knows, maybe I’m wrong… 
I think for the most part what people mean when they say private block chain is a database with sort of fine-grained permissions where only the owner of said row of data can do something with and if that's what they mean sure, I could see that being useful. I don't know if you can necessarily build a billion dollar business out of that and it seems to be a very peculiar sort of niche specific problem. 
Barzilay: You sure like to talk about Bitcoin, what’s your current take on Ethereum? 
Song: I generally try to stay out of Ethereum although recently I wrote up a tweet storm on proof of stake, which seems to have ruffled some feathers.  I tend to think that the whole Ethereum sub system is a lot more vulnerable to security flaws and experience has proved that to be true. The market doesn't seem to care at the moment but it's kind of like a Black Swan problem . It's okay until it's not okay. 
I'm open to being wrong, certainly they seem to have found the niche in ICO’s, again I've already expressed my skepticism on utility tokens in particular but yeah, I mean you know their big differentiator is turning completeness and almost every smart contract where they actually utilize the term completeness, it ends up having some scrim flaw and the vast majority of people that are using it are using it for ERC 20 tokens which don't require any turn completeness whatsoever. 
Barzilay: So it sounds like you’re skeptical of ICOs. 
Song: I mean Ethereum, they found a niche doing whatever it is that they do with ICO’s and good for them, but yeah, it's not as interesting to me just because I would hesitate to develop anything on it. 
Barzilay: Do you think ICOs are a phenomenon that will pass within the next year or two? 
Song: Well, it's a completely different business model, right? Like you have to know exactly how your customers are going to behave more or less because you're selling them the future, right? To some good or service most of the time, but you have a business model that you're kind of stuck with forever with an ICO, You can't really pivot or change your objectives or services and I think that's at the lifeblood of any business, especially startups. 
It’s the ability to adapt as needed as a start-up, that's your greatest strength and that's why you can beat these giant companies. Instead ICOs seem to have the encumbrance of both. You don't have a customer base like a large company but you can't move like a start-up, so you know, it feels like it's not really an economic model that could really work because you don't have any of the advantages of either and it's customers revenue that's the lifeblood of any business and I don't know maybe it's not a business, maybe it's just like sort of selling trinkets or something like that in which case it's not that interesting. 
Barzilay: Let’s go back to Bitcoin. Where do you see it going? 
Song: I see it becoming a really good store of value and I think that's the major use case today already and I see that increasing overtime, the price if Bitcoin go up and since the price is going to go up, people are going to be less willing to spend it just because you don't want to spend an increasing asset, right? I bought beef jerky four years ago for 0.25 Bitcoin which was about a hundred bucks at the time, I totally regret that… that's like $2,000 beef jerky, so yeah, I mean, I think the same mentality is going to hold for most people that are into Bitcoin and a lot of these utility tokens have had the same problem. 
Barzilay: Right now you can already store value with bitcoin, The problem, as I see it, is will bitcoin be able to transition to being a means of payment as well as a store of value.? Do you think this will ever happen? 
Song: There is lots of competition in that area, right? Not sure Bitcoin will be the one. 
Barzilay: So why would Bitcoin stay as the digital gold?