
Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs), which offer new digital coins to the public, are heralded as the next best thing to Initial Public Offerings (IPOs), which sell new shares of stocks. 
Don't get confused, though. They are not the same and you could lose most of your money in the ICOs. 
According to a recent study by the Satis Group, an advisory firm, 81% of recent ICOs were simply scams. 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
This is what the Satis Group found when it studied ICOs, according to ICOLink: 
 
  
"According to Sherwin Dowlat, an analyst at Satis Group, the results of the study are very depressing. Dovlat and his team came to conclusions after analyzing the ICO industry on the basis of various sources, such as ICO and CoinMarketCap rating sites. Below are the results for ICO projects worth more than $ 50 million: 
 
 ​81% - fraudulent projects; 
 6% fail during fund-raising; 
 5% can not get tokens on stock exchanges; 
 4.4% fall on the stock exchange (developing); 
 1.9% - successful projects; 
 1.8% - promising projects." 
 
 
Although I can't confirm these findings, it's clear that you're taking an outsized risk when investing in ICOs. In plain English, that means you'll likely lose most or all of your investment. 
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), along with other agencies across the world, have been cracking down on ICO fraud. 
Here's what the agency said last year in a statement on the subject: "The SEC recently issued several trading suspensions on the common stock of certain issuers who made claims regarding their investments in ICOs or touted coin/token related news.  The companies affected by trading suspensions include First Bitcoin Capital Corp., CIAO Group, Strategic Global, and Sunshine Capital." 
As you can imagine, the SEC takes a dim view of selling unregistered securities. Here's how you can protect yourself, according to a SEC Investor Alert: 
 
 Investors should do their own research and be aware that information from online blogs, social networking sites, and even a company’s own website may be inaccurate and potentially intentionally misleading. 
 Be especially cautious regarding stock promotions, including related to new technologies such as ICOs. 
 Look out for these warning signs of possible ICO-related fraud: 1) Company that has common stock trading claims that its ICO is “SEC-compliant” without explaining how the offering is in compliance with the securities laws;  2) Or a company that has common stock trading also purports to raise capital through an ICO or take on ICO-related business described in vague or nonsensical terms or using undefined technical or legal jargon. 
 
The bottom line for all ICOs: Be wary of claims. You won't get rich overnight in most cases. The opposite is likely.