
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    Photo by Shutterstock 
    
   
  
 
 Americans are estimated to owe $25 billion in taxes on cryptocurrency gains from 2017. 
Some people may still think the crypto exchanges operate in a gray area, giving them little reason to report the gains they’ve made in the past year—or three. 
But the IRS doesn’t see it that way. With bitcoin cresting in value at over $19,000 in 2017, it’s safe to say that cryptocurrency has come out of the shadows. And choosing not to pay taxes on crypto gains is a decidedly risky move. 
 
  
The IRS laid out its rules and expectations in a memo from 2014. But the Treasury Department’s Inspector General recently released a report urging the IRS to clarify its policies and ensure compliance. 
If you’re confused about what your crypto tax liability may be for the past year, or even how to pay it, you’re not alone. Crypto taxes are more complex than your average W-2, but there are plenty of tools that can help you get your taxes in order. Here’s what you need to know: 
 
For federal tax purposes, virtual currency is treated as property.  
It isn’t hard to see why some people have decided not to pay taxes on their crypto gains in the past. Most people aren’t in a hurry to pay their taxes under the best of circumstances, but the relative newness of these assets left many feeling confused about the process. 
One important point to remember here is that you won’t be taxed unless you’re liquidating your assets. If you sold assets in 2017, you need to report this because it counts as taxable income. 
Still, you’re likely going to need some help figuring out what you should be paying, especially if you’ve done quite a bit of trading on more than one crypto exchange over the past year. 
Be sure to consider all forms of cryptocurrency.  
In some cases, people don’t pay taxes on crypto assets because they don’t know they have to. The crypto space is still very new, and it can be easy to make a transaction that doesn’t feel like a transaction in the traditional sense. 
It’s important to keep track of everything you own and transact with—private keys, addresses, altcoins on Binance, digital art, and even valuable CryptoKitties. Just as with your regular taxes, taking note of your receipts and taxable income throughout the year makes everything much simpler. Once you have these records, there are several tools that can help estimate what you owe. 
 
 