
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
    In this photo illustration, US mobile payment company Circle application is seen on the screen of an iPhone in front of the Poloniex cryptocurrency exchange website on February 27, 2018 in Paris, France. US company Circle, funded by Goldman Sachs, today announced the acquisition of the exchange platform Poloniex, a heavyweight in the sector. According to an anonymous source interviewed by Fortune, Circle, which is now one of the largest players in this market, would have disbursed dollars 400 million for this acquisition. The company is now preparing to launch Circle Invest, a cryptocurrency purchase application for individuals. (Photo Illustration by Chesnot/Getty Images) 
    
   
  
 
The business of facilitating trade and payments between companies may have totaled $136 trillion in 2017, but it still lags well behind other sectors of finance in terms of technological disruption, a new report from Juniper Research finds. 
While payment classes such as business-to-customer, peer-to-peer and customer-to-customer have experienced tremendous technological advancement in recent years with innovations such as mobile payments and cryptocurrencies, that disruption has yet to work its way into the business-to-business realm. 
Indeed, 93% of cross-border money transfers in 2017 were facilitated by banks and financial institutions using “traditional methods.” 
“[T]o date, the B2B money transfer industry has not experienced the innovation and disruption that other areas in the finance and commerce space have had,” the report states, adding that won't remain true for long: 
 
  
 
 “The B2B money transfer space is ripe for disruption, with traditional banks and facilitators faced with the need to modernise; yet likely to have reduced revenues, or have innovative new fintech companies outmanoeuvre them, offering businesses more agile and efficient services.” 
 
For 2018, the market research firm projects the cross-border transfers value to grow to $140 trillion. These will be conducted by 18 million businesses worldwide, with the average transaction clocking in at $18,360. 
 
Why Not B2B? 
Why has the B2B space proven immune thus far to the disruption that has been unleashed across the other payment classes? 
While they may be slow, clunky and expensive, existing payment rails are well-established, readily-available and compliant with the myriad of regulations that exist globally – meaning that large companies typically prioritize payment providers that can navigate the maze of regulations that apply to cross-border money transfers.