

            French President Emmanuel Macron said he thinks U.S. President Donald Trump will withdraw from the Iran nuclear accord, dealing a blow to the agreement reached in 2015 and endorsed by world powers."I believe he will get rid of this deal for domestic reasons,” Macron told journalists Wednesday in Washington, adding that he encouraged the U.S. president to stay in the accord during his three-day visit to Washington.Macron went on to say that a U.S. withdrawal, which isn’t backed by any of the other five countries who are part of the agreement, would lead to a period of increased tensions and uncertainty over Iranian and U.S. reactions.
        
            {"contentId":"P7RJG66KLVR401","position":"box","dimensions":{"mobile":[[300,250],[1,1]]},"type":"Mobile Body Box Ad","positionIncrement":1,"targeting":{"position":"box1","positionIncrement":1,"url":"/news/articles/2018-04-25/macron-says-he-thinks-trump-will-pull-out-of-iran-nuclear-deal-jgfp09rm"},"containerId":"box-H1eRVDQ"}
            
        
        The comments come a day after Macron and Trump hosted a news conference in which the French president proposed a new agreement which would try to address many of Trump’s concerns about the six-party accord, which he has called “insane” and the “worst deal ever.” Keeping the U.S. in the agreement reached during the Obama administration has been a priority issue for Macron and European leaders ahead of a May 12 deadline for Trump to continue to waive U.S. sanctions that were lifted as part of the deal.Trump seemed at least somewhat interested in Macron’s blueprint, calling it a “new deal” with “solid foundations.” Teams of American negotiators have been working with European allies for weeks on a new accord along the lines of what Macron laid out. Like Macron, their biggest challenge is the absence of any guarantee that Trump will accept the result.But Trump’s desire didn’t appear to overcome his steadfast opposition to the existing agreement, the preservation of which other world leaders and diplomats insist is essential if there is to be further negotiation with Iran.— With assistance by Justin Sink
        