
 
  
 
Every day scammers are inventing new ways to rob you of your money. The latest fraud is a $5.2 billion problem worldwide. It is a wire transfer scam that is now affecting the home buying marketplace to the tune of $5.3 million a month. 
The Federal Bureau of Investigations has labeled these scams "business email compromise" or BEC. Not a catchy name, which could be why they've not garnered a lot of attention...but they should! They are frighteningly good scams with terrifyingly bad results. 
Initially the issue was discovered in the business sector. Fraudsters target the CEO's and CFO's at various companies and hack their computers. They garner enough information to learn the types of billing the company pays, who are the payee's and the average balances paid. They then spoof a customer, in other words, take their identity, and bill the company with wire transfer instructions to a scam bank account.  Check out the video above to see how it's done. 
 
  
Now, more and more, law enforcement is finding that these wire transfer fraudsters are seeping into the private sector. Their primary target, prospective home buyers. What they do is tap into an escrow company's computers, lift their emails and current customer database. They then create very real looking emails requesting that wire transfers be made immediately. 
Next, to complete the transaction they will log into a dating site to romance an unsuspecting love interest. Sufficiently bated they will then ask if the "lover" would be willing to accept an incoming wire to their personal bank account. The scammers are generally overseas, so they use that story to Once the money hits their "lovers" bank they manipulate the account, take the money...and the likely the person's heart. 
 
If you are in the process of an escrow, think you might be or know someone who is there are several red flags to be aware of. 
First, check to make sure the email you receive from the escrow company is actually from them. The logo might be askew or missing, misspellings are a dead giveaway and finally many savvy escrow companies will have a notice at the bottom warning customers about these crimes.