
 
  
   
  Shutterstock 
  
  
   
    
    Cryptocurrencies 
    
   
  
 
I consulted dozens of cryptocurrency (coin) traders on taxes in December and confirmed that coin traders made fortunes in 2017. Now that the 2017 tax-filing season is underway, these traders should gather online tax reports if available, use a coin trade accounting program, and review the latest guidance on tax treatment. 
Coinbase has a new online tax report 
  
On July 6, 2017, the IRS narrowed its summons against Coinbase, the most substantial U.S.-based coin exchange, to retrieve larger customers’ trades and other transactions to find unreported income. In late-December 2017, Coinbase added tax reporting of capital gains and losses using first in first out (FIFO). This move should undoubtedly please the IRS since there is no 1099-B issuance on coin trades. 
Capital gains and losses 
  
If you invested in cryptocurrencies and sold, exchanged, or spent it in 2017, you have to report a capital gain or loss on each transaction, including coin-to-currency sales, coin-to-coin trades, and purchases of goods or services using a coin. Deduct coin fees and other expenses appropriately. 
 
  
Some coin deals naturally generate taxable income, including coin-to-currency trades and mining income. For example, Bitcoin sold for U.S. dollars is a noticeable capital gain or loss reportable on Form 8949. Or, when a coin miner receives a coin for his work, he or she naturally recognizes business revenue based on the value of the coin. 
Imputed income 
  
The big problem for the IRS is that most other coin transactions are not evident for tax reporting, including coin-to-coin trades, hard forks (chain splits), and using a coin to purchase goods and services. The coin investor should “impute” a sales or exchange transaction to report a capital gain or loss on coin-to-coin trades and using a coin to purchase items. Many coin investors and their accountants overlook or mishandle this reporting and underpay the IRS. 
 
The IRS labels coin “intangible property.” Coin users may call it “digital money,” but it’s not sovereign government-issued money. That’s the critical difference: Each use of money is not a taxable event. Imagine having to report a capital gain or loss every time you purchased an item or asset with cash or a credit card. That would be ridiculous. 
Coin-to-currency trades 
  
Most taxpayers comprehend that if they purchased Bitcoin in 2016 for $10,000 and sold in 2017 for $30,000, they should report a capital gain of $20,000 on their 2017 tax return form 8949. A coin position held for one year or less is considered a short-term capital gain, taxed at ordinary tax rates (up to 39.6% for 2017 and 37% for 2018). A coin position held for more than one year is considered a long-term capital gain, taxed at capital gains rates (up to 20% for 2017 and 2018). 
Capital losses offset capital gains in full, and a net capital loss is limited to $3,000 against other types of income on an individual tax return. An excess capital loss is carried forward to the subsequent tax year(s), and it may not be carried back to a prior year. Some coin traders will pay massive taxes on capital gains in 2017 and get stuck with a capital loss limitation and carryover in 2018. 
Coin-to-coin trades 
  
Many coin traders actively make coin-to-coin trades like Bitcoin to Ethereum and then Ethereum to Litecoin. Currently, coin investors purchase alt coins using Bitcoin or Ethereum. 
Many taxpayers and preparers delay capital gains income on coin-to-coin trades by inappropriately classifying them as Section 1031 “like-kind exchanges,” where they may defer income to the replacement position’s cost basis. While the IRS hasn’t provided guidance on this matter,  I do not believe the majority of coin-to-coin trades made on coin exchanges qualify for Section 1031 transactions as they fail one or both of the two primary requirements (and both are required). First, Bitcoin may not be a like-kind property with Ethereum. Second, coin-to-coin trades executed on coin exchanges do not constitute a direct two-party exchange, and coin exchanges are likely not qualified intermediaries in a multi-party exchange. 
Coin-to-coin trading reminds me of forex trading between different currency pairs. Various currencies are not like-kind property (i.e., U.S. dollars are not a like-kind property with euros). Each coin has its version of a blockchain, and the network of users has a different purpose for each coin. 
I asked coin tax expert Jim Calvin, Partner of Deloitte and author of When (and If) Income is Realized from Bitcoin Chain-Splits, if he thought these trades could qualify for Section 1031 like-kind exchange treatment in 2017 and prior years. 
“It is neither a simple nor single factual issue,” he said. “It is not just whether the swapped coins are like-kind property, but also whether all the other requirements of Section 1031 can be met including the use of intermediaries.” 
Atomic swaps or atomic cross-chain trading started in August 2017. The new technology allows a direct two-party exchange, bypassing coin exchanges. That may meet one requirement, but the coins must also be a like-kind property for Section 1031 deferral. 
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and coin traders 
  
Starting in 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limits Section 1031 like-kind exchanges to real property, not for sale. Investors may not use it on artwork, collectibles, and other tangible and intangible property, including cryptocurrencies.