
 The resent publication in Superinteressante magazine says:"Buy SUPER articles with bitcoins SUPERINTERESSANTE magazine is ahead of a whole new experience, and you’re invited to take part."In the November issue, you’ll learn about a district in Berlin where bitcoins – a virtual currency – are replacing conventional money. In the article, you’ll understand how this virtual currency became more valuable in the last few years and how it makes transferring money online as easy as sending an email.But you don’t even have to wait for your print magazine. If you click below, you can gain access to our article about bitcoins and other special e-books published by SUPER. You just have to open your digital wallet and spend a few thousandths of a bitcoin. You will also test the first journalistic paywall entirely based on bitcoins.The Superinteressante monthly magazine, or just Super as local readers call it, has a long history – the first publication came in September 1987. It is owned by Editora Abril a successful Brazilian publisher. Rafael Kenski, the magazine’s editor, said: “Superinteressante magazine has been known in Brazil as an innovative publication, so it was important to us to experiment with such a disruptive technology as bitcoins.”According to interview Kenski believes that: “The publishing industry has been testing several ways to monetize online content, and micropayment has always been one possibility. Due to large fees, bad user experience and other technical difficulties, it has not really worked so far. Bitcoin can solve some of these problems, so it was worth testing it.”“Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, we suffered from hyperinflation and changed the national currency several times, so Brazilians have a lot of knowledge on how to deal with several currencies at the same time,” said Kenski. Any information about bitcoin and digital currency in common might have a lot of farseeing benefits.As for Superinteressante magazine itself new paywall idea seems to work well: “It is too soon to know if it will pay off financially, but it already worked as a test of the concept,” says Kenski.   