
 
            
            
                              
                              
              
              
              
                Regulation  
              
              
                                
                    
                       
                      
                        6 mins ago    |
                          By Avi Mizrahi -   |
                          338                                                                    
                      
                        Binance to Invest $15 Million in Bermuda as Crypto Regulations Advance                                              
                    
                                      
                    
                        

            


While some governments say they see the potential future benefits of a local cryptocurrency hub, more proactive jurisdictions are already reaping the rewards. The latest example comes from Bermuda, which is rapidly advancing its receptive crypto regulations and strengthening the local economy.  
Also Read: Hong Kong Alcohol Company Buys 51% of Bitcoin Miner for $60 Million
Binance Brings Jobs, Education and Investment
The Premier of Bermuda, Edward David Burt, announced on Friday his government’s new partnership with cryptocurrency exchange Binance. Under the signed agreement, the company is to establish a Global Compliance Centre in the country creating forty jobs. Binance will also invest $10 million in education for local residents, and $5 million in Bermuda-based blockchain companies.
While far from Binance’s Asian roots, Bermuda is an ideal choice for a global compliance department. The official language is English, it is an established offshore financial hub and as a self-governing British Overseas Territory offers a legal system similar to those in other commonwealth countries such as Australia and Canada. Additionally, the local government is advancing a welcoming regulatory environment for cryptocurrency firms.

Proud to announce @BdaGovernment’s partnership with @binance to establish a Global Compliance Centre in #Bermuda creating 40 jobs. Binance will invest $10 million in education for #Bermudians, and $5 million in #Bermuda based blockchain companies. pic.twitter.com/UxKmNdRPUM
— Premier David Burt (@BermudaPremier) April 27, 2018

Bermuda Sets Up Legal Framework
Also on Friday, Bermuda’s Virtual Currency Business Act passed through the House of Commons in the UK. The bill is expected to pass the Senate this week, and as we reported earlier, seeks to foster the development of the local cryptocurrency industry. It covers the issuing and selling of cryptocurrencies, ICOs, exchanges, wallets and other services.
“When you look at other current jurisdictions, they have either not been banking hubs traditionally, do not have the best track record when it comes to KYC/AML, or are in developing countries that aren’t presently suitable to support rapid growth of a technology or financial system. Bermuda does,” commented Joseph Weinberg, Chairman of blockchain KYC/AML solution Shyft. “Along with that, Bermuda also has a highly skilled workforce that is experienced in regulation and compliance and securities laws. The island also has a rich entrepreneurial history and a willingness to learn and adapt quickly. This made for an incredible working relation in building out regulation for the crypto community.”
What other governments should follow the example of Bermuda next? Share your thoughts in the comments section below. 

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Do you agree with us that Bitcoin is the best invention since sliced bread? Thought so. That’s why we are building this online universe revolving around anything and everything Bitcoin. We have a store. And a forum. And a casino, a pool and real-time price statistics.

        