
The final stretch: OPUS Development Update and Q&AWe’re back with our latest development update! We work harder every day to make sure the launch goes smoothly. We are also proud to introduce Jon Magnusson.There has been a lot of progress in retrieving data from the server, database creation, and various minor fixes and improvements.iOS and AndroidBesides various graphical improvements, such as the font, images, background, and general look of the app, we have completed work on creating playlists and adding tracks, and saving songs to your library, where everything will be sorted according to album, artist, playlist, or however else best suits the user.Furthermore, the function to register via Facebook and email has now also been finished. The registration will make use of our API.WebThe web player is very close to completion. We focused on the account registration for bands and solo artists, which will be done via a separate registration page. The player is now also connected to the API, and all the buttons are fully functional. Another thing that we worked on was adding and deleting tracks from users’ libraries.The main screen for fans is now ready.API and BlockchainThe development here has concerned a wide range of issues. We have perfected the endpoints as well as created new ones, modified the structure of storing data on the blockchain, and changed the way the music will be decoded on the platform.To doFor the iOS player, we will continue testing it and getting rid of any bugs we find, and make sure that it is ready for the May release.Moreover, we are planning to secure our endpoints, conduct more extensive tests on the blockchain, and setting up nodes for our API and for IPFS all over the world.Finally, we will be combining everything together to make sure that all the separate parts will join together to make up the entire platform.Q&AAs a small exception to the rule, we are including a short Q&A in this update to answer all the questions from our community.Will content be already available when the platform is launched?Yes! We are working with lots of artists from all over the world, and their music will be available on OPUS as soon as we launch.Are you facing any challenges ahead of the release of the player?Building a music player of this size is no simple task, but our development is going smoothly, and everything is on track for the release. We are looking into every detail, no matter how small, to make sure that the user experience is flawless and the platform is easy to use.What measures will be put in place to help users sign up to the platform?We will publish a short and simple tutorial that will help new users sign up without any major difficulties. It is among our top priorities to ensure that the entire process, from signing up to enjoying music, is easy and pleasant.Will the mobile apps and the web player be released at the same time?Yes! Everything is ready to be released in May this year, and everything will be published simultaneously. We are in the final stages of the development now and it’s looking great!Jon MagnussonIndependent music apostle and community builder Jon Magnusson is back with a new EP. Being somewhat crazy, the Swedish singer-songwriter was able to find an equally crazy producer in Ruben Engzell (Christian Kjellvander, Peter Morén) to co-produce his second EP.The result is an eclectic patch work of four songs brought together by their differences, as much as their similarities. This artistic exploration that’s usually reserved for a debut album, blends acoustic, electric and jazz guitar with classical analog synths like Roland Juno 60 and Yamaha CS-10, Hammond Organ and even a distorted glockenspiel. Jon & Ruben envisioned a weaving narrative of thoughtful lyrics and melodies laying blissfully on top of fresh soundscapes, which has become emblematic for Jon’s music.Though difficult to put a label on, calling it indie folk isn’t totally out of bounds. You can also hear elements of 70’s punk, new wave, jazz, psychedelic rock and even some Americana braided throughout the music, making this EP a bold step forward in Jon’s artistic pursuits.Be sure to visit Jon’s website, and follow him on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube.Big things comingPlease keep sending us more questions on our form, Discord, Telegram, or via e-mail at info@opus-foundation.org. You can also track our progress on Facebook and Twitter.We also encourage more artists to join us in revolutionizing the music industry by filling in this form or dropping us an email at info@opus-foundation.org.