
Workcoin — Revolutionizing the freelance marketplaceMost millennials are moving into freelancing as a way to liberate from their 9–5 jobs and in a sense to empower themselves. Freelancing industry has been booming over the past decade with a projection of more than 40% of work force to freelance in the United States alone. Websites like Fiverr and upwork have been on the rise with mammoth valuations at hundred of million dollars. The Gig Economy as it’s so rightfully called has been portrayed as the new professional scene, liberating and glamorous but often so, this is not the scenario.The realm of freelancing is plagued by opaqueness, variable costs and an increased risk exposure towards fraud. Furthermore, if I happen to look for an Neural network analyst for my niche startup, well, good luck to me with that. Freelancing marketplaces sure have a lot of low skilled endeavors or repetitive jobs such as data entry, proof reading etc, but things start getting messy when you want to hit the higher skilled jobs. Messy for both, the freelancer and the employer. Now, keeping a good match between the freelancer and the recruiter aside, what if the person recruited for the job never actually does the job? Hmm — not so glamorous indeed. These are just a few of the issues that a recruiter would face, but freelancers also have their fair share of troubles to cut through the market. Freelancers find it hard to make themselves found in the market. Although Upwork and Fiverr are the being the bearers of this marketplace, there are surely better alternatives in the making,enter — The Workcoin platform.Workcoin is dealing with all the issues plagued in the freelance economy, in a more graceful manner — via blockchain. Implementing blockchain is a novel way of smoothing the friction experienced between employers and freelancers. Firstly, blockchain is a transparent database, implying the identities and credentials of both the parties are open to scrutiny. Secondly, the Workcoin model provides an open search engine for employers to find the talent they’re looking for and visibility to skilled talent to get hired. Again, this could’ve have been implemented in a centralized environment as well, but the opaqueness practiced by centralized services inhibits this. Now, coming to the most exciting part of this platform —project management and dispute resolution. Often, freelancers spend quite a portion of their earnings into project management software to help them keep up with all the work. Workcoin’s platform has this service natively built into it, essentially drawing more freelancers to opt to their platform for this reason alone. There are incidents where Employers and freelancers need to be protected as well, this is where dispute resolution comes in. Workcoin platform handles this pretty gracefully by implementing an inbuilt escrow service. On completion of the job, the amount is paid back, should there be any arbitration the platform selects a qualified arbitrator at random from a pool of qualified applicants. The arbitrator scrutinizes the case, asks each participant for information, and then passes a binding judgement.The tokenomics of Workcoin is robust and simple that considers the fundamentals of supply and demand. The token velocity although a bit high, is mitigated due to the intrinsic nature of the token to be only paid when the job is done. This makes the payer to hold the tokens until the work is done and thereby reducing the velocity up to some extent.The true value of the platform is in it’s ability to capture the market and draw more people towards it. Given that, Workcoin is indeed targeting a huge market ($1.5 Trillion) and assuming if it even manages to capture a tiny fraction say, 1% that gives it a $15 Billion worth of market all to itself. That’s equivalent to the market capitalization of the top-10 Altcoins. With increasing people opting to do freelance work, the market can only grow further.Also, I seem to completely forget to mention the fact that has Workcoin platform is live — Yes, a crypto project with a working product Aha! The team is said to launch their mobile application this week, which would obviously enhance the productivity of it’s users. You can try the platform out here.Also, Workcoin has an Airdrop and Referral program, so feel free to knock yourself in here. Do check out their website for more info — workcoin.netTelegram — https://t.me/workcoinoverflow