
Personal Finance in the Developing World: A Behavioral PerspectiveBehavioral biases and cognitive limitations lead to flawed financial decisions all over the world, in developing and developed nations alike. However, the effects of these “mistakes” are felt much more strongly by those in developing nations, particularly those near or below the poverty line. These people have little margin for error, and so policy and other interventions should focus on enhancing their ability to make decisions that improve their well-being in the long run. In light of this, the processes by which humans make financial decisions, as well as the systemic biases that emerge, need to be understood, as well as implications for economic development policy and private sector innovation.Decision Making and Prospect TheoryThe standard economic model treats humans as rational utility-maximizers who care about the overall level of their wealth. Behavioral economics departs on this front, maintaining instead that humans make decisions in accordance with prospect theory, developed by Nobel Prize winner Daniel Kahneman along with Amos Tversky (who likely would have shared the prize if it had not been for his untimely death). This theory essentially holds that humans evaluate outcomes with respect to a reference point, a fact with major implications in predicting human behavior.For instance, say an investor buys a share in a company at $50, and the share subsequently falls to $40. Since the standard economic model doesn’t incorporate a reference point, it assumes that a risk-averse investor will always be risk averse, since his utility curve is concave for all values of wealth. The investor once held an asset worth $50, and now holds an asset worth $40; the fact that he lost $10 holds no bearing on his subsequent actions. His utility is a bit lower, and that is that.Prospect theory, on the other hand, holds that humans care about gains and losses in addition to their overall level of wealth. Looking at our graph below, our investor now lies to the left of a reference point, which we’ll assume is the price of the share when he first bought it. In this region of the graph, the function is convex: when people experience losses, they tend to become risk-seeking. This explains the empirical tendency of investors to hold on dearly to their losing investments: since they’ve experienced a loss, investors (now risk-seeking ) are effectively gambling that the price will rise, refusing to truly internalize the loss by selling. Standard theory predicts that investors should sell their losers and take advantage of the associated tax benefits, but this doesn’t seem to always happen in practice.Here’s the standard utility graph typically taught in microeconomics:And here’s the prospect theory value function:Additionally, notice that there is a kink in the graph at the origin — this is the phenomenon known as loss aversion, which holds that humans feel losses more intensely than gains of equal magnitude. The pain of losing $10 is roughly twice as intense as the joy of finding $10, depending on the person.Other BiasesDecision Making, Biases and the Developing WorldThe World Bank’s 2015 World Development Report (WDR) found that the tendency to overvalue losses and undervalue gains may lead to “economically significant welfare losses.” It’s easy to imagine that a short-sighted gain/loss focus can lead to poor long-term decisions. Those in poverty might avoid investing their time and resources into activities with a lot of short-term variance in payoff, even if the long-term expected return on that investment is higher. For example, the WDR refers to a hypothetical farmer in India who devotes some land to a higher-risk, higher-return crop that essentially guarantees higher profitability in the long-run. When a drought hits that year, the new crop performs poorly — even though low returns in one given year should not be surprising giving this crop’s “volatility,” the farmer abandons this venture and returns to his low-risk, low-return crop.Now imagine a novice investor who checks their trading account too often and who, unable to stomach short-term losses, exits the market in lieu of an ultra-safe deposit account, even though they will almost certainly end up better off in the long-run by staying in the market. This investor and the Indian farmer essentially suffer from the same decision-making deficiencies.How can we help such decision makers act in their long-term interests? Emphasis is a big factor — something that increases the relative saliency of the long-term could go a long way towards improving people’s ability to “ignore” short-term fluctuations. This could also serve to help people in developing countries overcome present bias, the tendency to shift pleasant experiences to the present and defer unpleasant ones to the future. It is easy to see how such a bias could lead to non-optimal consumption and savings decisions, especially for those around the poverty line, whose basic consumption needs eat up a substantial portion of their income. Indeed, according to the WDR:“impatience is strongly correlated at the individual level with low saving and imprudent financial planning….people construe decisions differently when considering them in general terms for the long-run from when they are delving into the details to implement them now or shortly.”In other words, people lack self-discipline. And this isn’t to say that this is the fault of people in developing countries; quite the contrary. A concept called ego-depletion holds that willpower draws upon a finite amount of mental resources, and that these resources can be “used up.” Furthermore, economist Dean Spears has found that the hardships of poverty make people even more susceptible to ego-depletion. Since those in the developing world have limited or no access to self-control devices like automatic deposits to savings and mandatory retirement contributions, many continue to suffer the consequences (which are amplified relative to those not near the poverty line).InterventionsConsidering the above, it seems imperative that those in developing countries are provided with some means to commit themselves to acting in their long-term interests, conquer their impulses, and minimize the damage of ego-depletion, in addition to improving their financial literacy in general. This is certainly no easy task.Commitment DevicesThe implementation of commitment devices has seen some promising results. A 2011 study that analyzed Malawian farmers found that access to “commitment savings accounts,” which allowed the farmers to restrict access to their savings until a future date, had a significant impact on profits:In the Philippines, individuals who were offered similar accounts increased savings by 82 percent more than a control group. In Kenya, providing people with a lockable metal box, padlock, and passbook increased investment in health products by 66–75 percent.NudgesAccording to Nobel Prize winning economist Richard Thaler and Harvard Law Professor Cass Sunstein, a nudge is a way of presenting choices that “alters people’s behavior in a predictable way without forbidding any options or significantly changing their economic incentives…putting fruit at eye level counts as a nudge. Banning junk food does not.”Successful nudges in the developing world have included reminders about late fees on loans, as well as simple text messages that remind people to save. The latter has been especially successful when emphasizing a specific goal as the object of saving, such as a durable good. Such measures could even attempt to “gamify” the saving process, for instance by allowing people to “level up” as they meet savings goals.Financial EducationFinancial literacy is clearly an important prerequisite in allowing people to make optimal spending, saving, borrowing, and investment decisions. However, the manner in which people are educated has a significant impact on the subsequent results. Research summarized in the WDR shows that, due to cognitive limitations, there is a such thing as too much education. A study in the Dominican Republic found that simplified, rule-of-thumb training was significantly more successful than more in-depth standard accounting training. Additionally, the more personalized the advice is, the more successful it is.MicrofinanceIt should be noted that, alongside behavioral biases and financial illiteracy, a big reason why so many people remain impoverished is because they simply lack access to conventional financial services. Many instead turn to non-collateralized microloans, which actually have pretty high repayment rates. According to the WDR, these high repayment rates are significantly due to social factors like loyalty among group members and fear of the stigma of default.However, microfinance has many limitations, and possibility contributes to debt-traps and even suicide. Bringing those who rely excessively on microfinance into the mainstream financial system would prove invaluable for their well-being. However, it seems unlikely that these financial institutions would be willing to make non-collateralized loans to these risky borrowers at manageable rates of interest.To reduce information asymmetry and improve incentives, perhaps banks could simply require detailed and continuously updated records of potential borrowers financial decisions, giving them significantly better predictive power regarding default risk. Applicants could track all of their budgeting decisions on a platform similar to personal finance apps like Mint. Additionally, such a platform could be integrated with the behavioral interventions above, providing nudges and reminders, simple and relevant financial literacy education, and financial products that effectively serve as commitment devices.While such a system could provide some much needed innovation in the developing world, it would certainly create privacy concerns with users’ data. The idea of lenders having so much access to user data might prove worrisome, and is something that would need to be addressed, perhaps by some kind of anonymized system.ConclusionA key takeaway from the insights from behavioral economics and psychology is that we shouldn’t try to “fix” behavioral biases that are likely hardwired into our brains. Instead, biases should be accounted for in public and private sector decision making. This is especially important in the developing world, where the poverty rate tends to be higher, since decisions hold so much weight for those living at low income levels. Making matters worse, according to the Economist developing nations, on average, spend 1.5% of GDP on social safety nets. OECD nations spend 2.7% on average.