
Cartel price suppression of Bitcoin? A polemical approachHey, Cartel! Leave us alone!A vey interesting article about a cartel suppressing prices in crypto emerged a few weeks ago. It was banned on medium but its steemit copy is still there. Take a look.Since then many of you have asked about our opinion on the cartel in crypto markets. Is it really possible that a cartel suppresses prices in crypto? Well, lets give our few satoshis on the subject. The well recognised article tries to prove that in some markets like uranium, gold and silver the cartel has successfully suppressed the price for a long period of time. We are talking about years here. Check it yourself:GoldSilverUraniumAs you might notice, all these charts compromise years of price movement. Now, look at the BTC chart:BTC chart since May 2017Do you realise that the chart only represents only a few month of BTC price movement? The first thing we have to understand is that the BTC markets and crypto markets in general move way faster than traditional financial markets. While BTC only needed rarely 10 months to gain almost 2000% in value, gold’s bull run took 10 years to reach ATH with 580% price increase and the price is still at a high level in comparison to where it was before the bull run had started. Looking at the chart for Uranium, one can see that the bull run needed 6 years to reach its ATH with a 2018% increase in price. At that time Uranium was totally overvalued and the Global Recession of 2009 led to a massive price decrease in almost all markets. Moreover, its worth mentioning that Uranium started another bull run in 2010 which was suddenly interrupted by the reactors misfortune in Fokushima 2011 which lead to a price devaluation. This has nothing to do with suppression. Its questionable that the author even mentions Uranium when he claims that the primary purpose of the “Cartel” is to suppress the prices of assets that appear to be a threat to the ‘fiat stronghold’ that currently exists on the planet. How can Uranium be a threat to FIAT? Neither does it act as a currency nor could it ever be a threat to the ‘fiat stronghold’. So whats the point of suppressing the price of Uranium!? We could easily go on and find more inconsistencies in the article but we would rather give you an alternative explanation for the long lasting bear market. We do not have a single doubt that there is price manipulation in the crypto market. However, we are not going to use the term “cartel“ as there is no evidence (and the author doesn’t provide any!) for its existence. Of course, we can’t also not fully deny the existence of a cartel in crypto. However, the following explanation should provide you with an alternative explanation for what has recently happened to BTC:whales and wildcatters bought Bitcoin to stock up for futures contractsas the price went up, they were making money on their Bitcoin investmentwhen the futures started (roughly 20k USD BTC valuation), they opened shorts in the futures because that’s what futures options enablethey then periodically sold their accumulated Bitcoins to drop the price so their futures could bring them profitsthey kept opening new futures shorts and selling their Bitcoin until they no longer had the Bitcoin required to lower the pricewhat will happen soon? They will run out of Bitcoin and won’t be able to move the price down furtherthe cycle will be finished and with their profits, they will be able to repeat the cycle buying Bitcoin up to a new ATH and…repeat steps 1–6….The whole process was made possible because:The majority of people who bought BTC and alt coins did not even understand crypto (not to mention its crazy volatility)Majority of Dec/Jan buyers didn’t believe in BTC in the long run • Majority of Dec/Jan buyers wanted to get rich quicklyThe majority ignored basic trading rulesThey bought high and panic sold when the price went down (weak hands, FOMO and panic sellingAlt coins are in a toxic correlation with BTC → when BTC goes down, alt coins also go down.