
I would like to share my opinion about a new project in blockchain technology called “Quarkchain”. Being part of the community, it is very exciting to see that so many people are talking about this project so actively and supportively.We are just in the beginning of this wonderful journey that blockchain technology is offering us. Personally I believe that blockchain will change the world in the next few years and projects like Quarkchain empower the entire coming system. Most of the industries will change, and blockchain technology will embedded in our daily life and affect our lives in a better and more freely way. Finance, education, textile, automotive, energy, media and many other industries will adopt and bring us products and services based on the the blockchain technology.The blockchain technology has still main challenges: security, decentralization and scaling-out. We need a solution that will solve all these problems in one. Quarkchain has many features to offer such us the reshardable two-layered blockchain, a guaranteed security by market-driven collaborative mining, anti-centralized horizontal scalability, efficient cross-shard transactions and simple account management. All of these features will disrupt the industry.The team behind the project is very strong too. The project is led by Qi Zhou (Founder), an expert in high-performance systems and a former Google employee with 15+ years of development experience. He also holds a PhD from Georgia Institute of Technology.Other listed members of the QuarkChain team include ZhaoGuang Wang (Senior Software Engineer), Ting Du (CMO for China), Anthurine Xiang (CMO), and Kyle Wang (COO). The team looks very strong with background in top technology companies like Google and Facebook, highly experienced blockhain programmers, good marketing team and remarkable advisors. It’s a balanced team with people from all the related fields. If they work together as a team, I believe that they will succeed.Also another great thing I noticed, is the caring of the team for the community. They show real interest and fairness for the people while trying to keep the balance. One of the most important things is that they actually have a product to deliver that actually works as described above. That’s remarkable while many other ICO projects are just trying to get your money while offering just words with long roadmaps and not so quality products/services.I believe that, by supporting this project, we are a part of a revolution that is already here and happening. The team has the passion, the knowledge and the ‘’know how’’ to achieve it and bring us a technological masterpiece that will change the world.Keep it simple, Keep it Right.Ertugrul GERDANWiseManGalata Capital