
Interview with the e-Heal teamToday, I have interviewed the e-Heal team on their future projects. E-Heal is developing a medical safety net whose strength increases with increasing necessity.1) What problem are you solving, why do you need the blockchain technology and what are the main pillars that define your company and differentiate you from your competitors?The problem that we solve is equal access to medical care. Blockchain eases this because it allows maximization of population health on an individual basis (Strictly speaking on a peer-to-peer basis where peers agree that the most severely ill are prioritized and this priority decreases with decreasing need.) Being decentralised, the very definition of competitors is ambiguous.2) What value are you adding to your industry value chain and which are the main obstacles to the success of your solution?The value added is first a moral one pertaining to a rule of rescue, second, an economical one where government savings or other fund savings on financing interventions that are not so severe but that meet cost-effectiveness thresholds can be allocated elsewhere and third, a legal one that ensures that numerous laws, such as UN right for person with disability, and other laws protecting our fundamental right to life are observed. The current obstacle is opportunity costs of individuals who are already contributing to some type medical safety net. But I do not see any obstacle that cannot be overcome.3) Who is working on the project? What is the background and experience of the team members?The project is totally decentralised and anyone wishing can currently contribute with their work or with their Bitcoins. A voting platform will initially be built on RSK for work to be uploaded. All interested parties, academics, volunteers from the UN, biotechnologists and actuaries can choose to take an active role and upload their work.4) Why did you decide to launch an ICO and why do you need a public Token Sale?I am not currently launching an ICO but rather an Initial Coin Earning (ICE) scheme for work that is already done. When the voting platform is up and running, then votes on procurement for work to be done can be launched. Even then, it is not an ICO because coins are not sold except for a minimum work of voting. But a public token sale is needed so that all individuals, inclusive of a patient, can share in the decision making. So, all participants can choose to take an active role or a passive role.5) How does your token function within the platform and why is it needed? How did you decide the total supply and distribution among stakeholders?Within the platform, the token functions as stakes and as reward for work done. The total supply is arbitrary as it should because it is unpriced yet. It is currently 1 billion and might as well have been 21 million or 1 million or even 1 token that is divisible. But distribution of stakeholder token will be demographically distributed. People from poor regions, who likely do not have technologies for acquiring stakeholder tokens, will have their share in custody until fundraising can provide basic technologies and education.6) Where do you see the value of your token in the medium to long term and the ultimate benefit for the token holders?The value of the token depends on network effect. Patients groups, academics involved in pricing, and other representative parties, who are interested would not add as much value to the token as the public itself. And, a patient or any member of the public would rather gain some remuneration for sharing a distress than not. So, the token value should increase in correlation to users.7) What is your roadmap and what are your plans after ending the ICO? Are you afraid that the volatility of the cryptocurrency market might affect the economy of your project in any way?As mentioned, I am not launching an ICO but a platform for vote on work done and work to be done. Proposals for roadmaps also amount to work that are voted. I was afraid of volatility and have a built in mechanism for hedging against volatility.