
Why the nCash “FUD” is BullshitI really hate the word ‘FUD’ for anyone that knows me.If you really know me, then you know that I usually blast coins for this type of thing. I’ve blasted Verge for their shady practices among many others in the cryptocommunity. One could say that I’m a ‘whistleblower’.However, this article will actually take the opposite approach. It’s for me to call out the fake news (I hate that word too) that has hit the nCash team in recent hours.I logged on earlier today and saw some buzz regarding the‘fake partnerships’ that the nCash team/brand claimed to have.Here is the tweet below from the user. You can read the thread yourself:Please keep in mind, that no one else has received any such response from the companies that have alleged ‘fake partnerships’ with nCash.To be clear, the Twitter user, @CryptoHades, alleges that they personally reached out to the Twitter accounts for Tommy Hilfger (@TommyHilfger) and Nautica (@nautica).Below are the string of tweets posted by the user re: the ‘fake partnerships’Okay, so let’s unpack this for a moment:Here’s the first screenshot that was posted:It intros with the user simply stating, “You are being seen as partners at nucleus.vision do your firm confirm this information or not?”The alleged response was:“Hi Crypto Hades, thank you for your message. We are looking into this for you and will get back to you shortly. Many Thanks, Tommy Hilfiger Team”Immediately from this point, I could tell that this was more than likely fabricated from the sentence structure itself.There is no ‘Tommy Hilfiger Team’, and they would never address themselves as such. ‘Tommy Hilfiger’ is a corporation. Customer support, an intern or some PR firm more than likely runs that Twitter account. So, I highly doubt that they would ever refer to themselves in such a manner.Look at the way that the message is formatted. This is too amateur-ish for a company of Tommy Hilfger’s stature. There is no spacing between the salutation of the message (“Hi Crytpo Hades”) and the rest of the message. Also, the word ‘Hi’ is ridiculously informal and a salutation that I could not imagine any serious, professional organization would ever use to address a customer unless it was an automated message. Also, the spacing between “Crypto” and “Hades” makes no sense either. Why would they not condense that as one word? More than likely, if a company is going to address someone on social media, they would formally combined either their username, or their listed name. This may not seem like a big deal, but it is. The way that this message is written is incredibly unprofessional in a way that would be highly uncharacteristic of Tommy Hilfiger.How do we know that such a message would be so uncharacteristic of Tommy Hilfiger? Great question. Let’s check the actual tweets that the Tommy Hilfger brand has put up on their account.This message is one that I would expect from the brand. Take note of the obvious stylistic difference in the writing. This tweet above looks like a very carefully crafted, professional, well-formatted tweet that someone probably proof-read a few times before sending out. These companies don’t just send tweets/DMs out at whim without considering the greater implications of what they’re sending to others.Here’s an example of how they actually respond to customers. They use the entire @ name of the user to address them. They would never use such informal language like what you see in the screenshot.But, let’s analyze the other screenshots that the user posted.This is a bit redundant to what I posted above. The same points apply here as well. Although, it’s interesting that the Tommy Hilfger team would say that they will check in with the user specifically…Now, here’s where the bullshit rains in thick:Before beginning with this, it is worth noting that nCash did not state anywhere on their website that they had a partnership with Tommy Hilfiger (this is a crucial detail to remember).It says this:“Trusted by 100’s of Brands”So, either the person running the Tommy Hilfiger Twitter account is a complete dumbass or no one in their entire company has the ability to do any level of due diligence — because there was no news of a partnership anywhere on Nucleus.Vision’s website.So, the response of , “The relevant departments across all Tommy Hilfiger regions are still waiting for confirm this partnership…”Apart from the odd grammatical error here, which appears to be indicative of someone who doesn’t speak English as their first language, I’m not sure why they would be looking for confirmation of any type of partnership because this was never mentioned anywhere on their website.“Thank you very much for alerting us of this instance. We are committed to combating any infringement of our intellectual property rights and to the prosecution of those attempting to capitalize on our brand name recognition…”What infringement? Where did they spot it? A partnership is not listed. In fact, if there was just one store that approved the usage of nCash’s technologies, they’d be well within their rights to list those companies on their website.So, if this is the result of their ‘research’, then Tommy Hilfiger does piss poor research.However, I do not believe that this is a true response by the Tommy Hilfiger company — in any way. Also, given the fact that they’re a publicly traded company, why would they keep this information private? Why would they not inform all people that they do not have an active partnership with nCash?BMW had no trouble revealing this information when there were discrepancies regarding their relationship with the coin, VeChain.Like you see above, most companies will not only publicly address this — they’ll clarify the actual relationship as well.For the record, BMW did clear this up in a subsequent tweet:Point being that most brands will clear this up in public — not through a direct message.Let’s move forward though:These are the messages that they allege that they had with Nautica. Notice how the direct message response is written in the exact same format as the Tommy Hilfiger response that I posted above. But let’s continue forward.Check out the comparison that I outlined here:Now check out the “screenshot” that the user posted:No way in hell they’d write a response like that ^ Trust me. I’m from the United States, I’ve graduated from a university, I’ve worked in offices and at various companies — they’d never send out some shit like that. The way they tweet is how most companies work — very careful, crafted and meticulous. Companies guard their social media like fortresses and they carefully screen any and all information that comes out of it.Here are more reasons why you should know that the information posted by this user is complete BS:1.) They would never disseminate information like this through a direct message to one user and one user alone. 2.) They would never send a message that’s worded so strangely, grammatically. Just read the screenshot. It sounds like someone wrote it that doesn’t speak English as a 1st language. Plus the error of, “Thanks for bring this to our attention”. I mean, really? 3.) Nautica is a publicly traded company — so, there’s absolutely no way that they’d be releasing information like this and not informing all investors about it immediately. This is part of due diligence and disclosure.I’ve worked in the licensing department at ASCO ←- That stands for the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Companies of this stature have legal and licensing departments whose jobs are to literally search around the internet and find people infringing on copyright. We don’t announce stuff like this through a DM. It would be through a crafted press-release that a barred attorney would right. And you wouldn’t ask them to “take it down”, you’d send a cease and desist letter and this would be done in private. This is routine shit. We damn sure wouldn’t update anyone outside of the website about the infringement either. Most times, we had NDAs with different partners and wouldn’t even directly confirm some information like that with a random ass stranger outside of the company inquiring about what’s going on.Disclaimer: I don’t own one red penny of nCash. Never have, never will. I don’t get paid by them, you’ve never seen me ‘shill’ the product. Matter fact, I don’t think that this idea is super viable in the long-term, because we’re transitioning from physical retail locations to online shopping and this product’s idea is based on installing technology that works sort of like RFIDs into stores. So, I’m really a neutral observer just calling bullshit because I call it like I see it. You don’t have to believe me, but this is the God’s honest truth. I’d be thoroughly shocked if I’m wrong about any of what I just stated.Update!It appears that the nCash team has also posted a refutation of the fraudulent messages that were spread throughout social media today as well:Message from Nucleus Vision CEOIn light of recent rumors spread amongst our investor community, we at Nucleus Vision would like to clarify a few…medium.comIf you believe that the messages from this one Twitter user (no one has corroborated this yet and there are no public statements to give even a little bit of credence), then go ahead.If you want my opinion, someone just pump faked this entire sphere with some really easy to fabricate screenshots and got a bunch of nCash for cheap, and they’re probably cracking up because they’re up 40%+ for no logical reason other than people believing every thing that they see on the internet.So, my verdict for this issue? It’s complete bullshit and it’s about a few hours away from being debunked. I’d recommend you’d fuel up on nCash before it really restores its value and then pumps from there.Disclaimer: I’m not a financial advisor and I do not own ANY nCash and never have! But I do now because I’m about to make a killing after everyone figures out these ‘screenshots’ are complete bullshit.