
XSN Army Blog Post 2Here is another great article by SandyI hope that everyone enjoyed learning about Stakenet’s (XSN) Trustless Proof of Stake System. If you missed my first blog post, you can find it, here : https://steemit.com/altcoins/@thehermitmonk/introducing-stakenet-xsn-the-first-poscryptocurrency-that-allows-staking-from-cold-storage-wallets. While my first post outlined the process of establishing a trustless staking contract with a merchant, this post aims to give crypto enthusiasts a preview of XSN’s exclusive staking as a service platform (SaaS).As I stated in my first post, Proof of Stake (POS) systems typically force users to jump through a number of hoops, just so they can access rewards owed to them. Thankfully, the XSN team sincerely believes that all high quality POS coin hodlers should be able to stake their coins without having to have to set up a separate laptop and then leave that laptop turned on and connected to the Internet 24/7. Not only will this service be helpful to the POS currency space as a whole (it incentivizes long term investing) but it will create an excellent cross platform marketing mechanism.Dear reader, it would be terribly irresponsible for me to make the claim that the POS validation mechanism will be more popular than, say, Proof of Work (POW), Delegated Proof Stake, etc. The main reason I am not making that claim is that it is still very early in the cryptocurrency saga. Just consider how many projects have sky-high valuations even though nobody is actually using the product. However, what I can say with a fair degree of certainty is that POS coins aren’t going anywhere. In fact, POW heavy hitter, Ethereum (ETH) is planning to switch from POW to POS. Soon, investors in high-quality POS coins will be able to enjoy a secure passive income stream. As such, investors that hodl coins like ETH or OMG, will likely be drawn to Stakenet’s SaaS. The potential for this cross platform service to bring new investors into XSN is basically limitless.However, this advantage goes way beyond cross platform marketing; Stakenet’s development team is creating a first of its kind, in wallet Decentralized Exchange (DEX), whereby investors can utilize the existing XSN masternode network to privately swap their XSN coins with other assets. In technical terms, this will result in a system whereby assets other than XSN (OMG ETH STRAT) will be tradable via atomic swaps, right from within the in-wallet DEX. As one can tell, is an incredibly exciting time to be a part of the XSN journey. There is a ton of great energy on their Discord and over the past few weeks, they have been hiring new developers. I urge everyone to join the XSN discord so that they can educate themselves about this remarkable platform. As always, this is NOT investment advice, DYOR, and always seek help from a qualified investment advisor. Thank you very much for taking the time to read this post.Linksi) SaaS website (early build) https://stakenet.io/ii) XSN coin site https://xsncoin.io/iii) Reddit https://www.reddit.com/r/StakeNet/iv) Twitter https://twitter.com/XSNofficial