
Legal outline of digital assets market Q1 2018.I am pleased to share my research on improvement of cryptocurrencies regulation in the first quarter of 2018. I hope you find it useful and insightful. Please, clap, share, comment:)Great summary of what this article is all aboutEXECUTIVE SUMMARYSubstantial and rapid growth of cryptocurrency market at the end of 2017 has resulted in increased attention from governmental authorities in the first quarter of 2018 and respective public statements on the topic and proposed regulation of the industry. The general trend suggests that international organizations and governments continue to monitor the market and prepare to propose new regulation. The companies involved in the cryptocurrency business should carefully analyze the legislation of the jurisdictions where business activity takes place in order to be complaint and not being held liable for violation of applicable laws.In the course of my analysis based on the news published by Coindesk media, I have come to the following conclusions:Cryptocurrency market development interests not only domestic regulators but as well draws attention of international organizations such as G20, FATF, OECD, IMF, EU etc.Government officials at least from 30 countries have made public statements with regards to regulation of cryptocurrency industry. At least 10 draft bills and guidance have been introduced aiming at creating and clarifying regulatory framework for ICOs, operation of exchanges and taxation of cryptocurrency investments.The approach of governments to regulation of cryptocurrencies is rather disjointed and separated: some are in favor of the industry, others oppose the cryptocurrencies and still others refrain from getting involved and choose to observe.At least 6 countries consider to regulate ICOs with a separate legislation. Often such legislation covers the differences between utility-tokens and security tokens.At least 3 countries consider to create a separate regulatory framework for cryptocurrency exchanges. Mainly such regulation relates to compliance of exchanges with AML / CFT rules and sets obligation for exchanges to conduct KYC of the customers.At least 5 countries have announced the stance on cryptocurrency taxation.At least 6 countries were looking forward to creating special group and taskforces whose main responsibility would be to monitor cryptocurrency industry.In Q1 2018 we have seen first cryptocurrency issued by government — Venezuelan Petro. There are at least 5 other countries where the idea of creating government backed cryptocurrency is being considered.At least 44 cryptocurrency companies have been requested by authorities to seize their business activity. Half of the requests target companies launching ICOs.At least 16 litigation cases have taken place in Q1 2018, 4 of which relate to ICOs and 2 to cryptoexchanges. Most of the cases aim at bringing charges for fraudulent activity and take place in US jurisdiction.Google, Facebook, Twitter have banned advertisement involving cryptocurrency and ICOs.Most of the payment and banking institutions cut ties with cryptocurrency companies and prevent their customers from investing in cryptocurrencies.Market participants expand their geographical presence by setting up subsidiaries worldwide and extend the range of services provided through acquisition of other companies.INTERNATIONAL REGULATIONCryptocurrency market development interests not only domestic regulators but as well draws attention of international organizations such as G20, FATF, OECD, IMF, EU etc.These organizations are still exploring the industry and do not rush to offer any regulatory framework. The focus is put on general issues related to cryptocurrency regulation rather than specific regulation of ICOs, crypto wallets / exchanges and mining activity.G20 — world’s economic leaders have set July deadline to gather necessary information before any regulation can be proposed. FATF said it will increase its efforts in monitoring the use of cryptocurrencies in money laundering. Christine Lagarde, head of the IMF, has stated that international regulatory action on cryptocurrencies is inevitable. OECD said it is developing tools and building cooperation in examining tax consequences of new technologies such as cryptocurrencies and distributed ledger technology. Mario Draghi, president of the ECB, has said it’s not his institution’s job to regulate cryptocurrencies.North American Securities Administrators Association, European Supervisory Authorities and International Organization of Securities Commissions warned the public against investing in cryptocurrencies and ICOs due to risky nature of such investments.ECB executive board member Yves Mersch has said bitcoin poses a threat to economic stability if financial infrastructure institutions get involved with the cryptocurrency.DOMESTIC REGULATIONGovernment officials at least from 30 countries have made public statements with regards to regulation of cryptocurrency industry. At least 10 draft bills and guidance have been introduced aiming at creating and clarifying regulatory framework for ICOs, operation of exchanges and taxation of cryptocurrency investments.REGULATION OF CRYPTOCURRENCIESThe approach of governments to regulation of cryptocurrencies is rather disjointed and separated: some are in favor of the industry, others oppose the cryptocurrencies and still others refrain from getting involved and choose to observe.Capitalistic leaders such as US and UK choose to observe the development of the industry and have not proposed any legislation yet. UK Treasury has announced that it will conduct an inquiry into issues around cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology. US House of Representatives has hold a hearing on cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings ICOs. SEC and the CFTC voiced that they are devoting a significant portion of resources to monitoring the industry.Some countries deliberately refuse to regulate the space due to different reasons. The director of Germany’s central bank believes that bitcoin should be regulated through an international set of rules rather than on a national scale. Brazil Central Bank president Ilan Goldfajn said cryptocurrencies will not be regulated in his country.Stance of governments which are to regulate the industry ranges from providing favorable treatment for cryptocurrency companies and creating attractive climate within the country to completely prohibiting any business activity associated with cryptocurrencies. For instance, Spain’s ruling political party is drafting legislation that it hopes will help attract cryptocurrency companies to the country. On the contrary, Bank Indonesia has warned that cryptocurrencies may not be used for payments in the country and the National Bank of Kazakhstan wants to ban cryptocurrency trading and mining.REGULATION OF ICOSAt least 6 countries consider to regulate ICOs with a separate legislation. Often such legislation covers the differences between utility-tokens and security tokens.Japan’s financial regulator is mulling the creation of a regulatory framework for companies raising funds through initial coin offerings. The Israel Securities Authority is recommending lenient regulations for initial coin offerings, including a clear definition of what separates a so-called “utility token” from a security. Gibraltar announced that it was drafting ICO regulation earlier this month, which will include the implementation of a system for “authorized sponsors” that will be tasked with managing compliance.REGULATION OF CRYPTOEXCHANGESAt least 3 countries consider to create a separate regulatory framework for cryptocurrency exchanges. Mainly such regulation relates to compliance of exchanges with AML / CFT rules and sets obligation for exchanges to conduct KYC of the customers.South Korea is considering a technology-specific licensing scheme as part of it proposed regulation of cryptocurrency exchanges. Abu Dhabi’s markets regulator is considering drawing up a supervisory framework for cryptocurrency exchange operations. Malaysia’s central bank introduced new policies for cryptocurrency exchanges.CREATION OF SPECIAL TASKFORCESAt least 6 countries were looking forward to creating special group and taskforces whose main responsibility would be to monitor cryptocurrency industry.UK Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond is expected to announce a government “crypto assets task force” which will include the Bank of England and the Financial Conduct Authority in addition to the Treasury. US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Friday that the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a government body that assesses financial system risks, has formed a working group focused on cryptocurrencies. South Korea’s central bank has launched a cryptocurrency task force to explore the technology’s effects on the financial system. The French minister of the economy, Bruno Le Maire, has announced the creation of a working group to develop cryptocurrency regulations.REGULATION OF TAXATIONAt least 5 countries have announced the stance on cryptocurrency taxation.The Internal Revenue Service has reminded US taxpayers to include any cryptocurrency income on their annual tax forms. A tax official from India has said that gains from cryptocurrency investment are subject to tax liability and that it will seek those trying to avoid paying up. Israel’s government confirmed Monday that it would treat bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies as a kind of property for tax purposes. Lawmakers from Iceland have suggested imposing a new tax on bitcoin mining companies. Germany won’t tax bitcoin users for using the cryptocurrency as a means of payment, the Ministry of Finance has said.GOVERNMENT-BACKED CRYPTOCURRENCYIn Q1 2018 we have seen first cryptocurrency issued by government — Venezuelan Petro. There are at least 5 other countries where the idea of creating government backed cryptocurrency is being considered.The Republic of the Marshall Islands intends to issue the Sovereign, or SOV, to supplement the U.S. dollar as its legal tender. A central bank-issued digital currency (CBDC) released by the People’s Bank of China should incorporate elements of cryptocurrencies, according to Yao Qian, who spearheads the central bank’s research in this area. Iran’s central bank is developing a cryptocurrency that would be administered by the state government. President Vladimir Putin has reportedly commissioned Russian officials to work on developing a national cryptocurrency dubbed the “cryptorouble.”LITIGATIONAt least 16 litigation cases have taken place in Q1 2018, 4 of which relate to ICOs and 2 to cryptoexchanges. Most of the cases aim at bringing charges for fraudulent activity and take place in US jurisdiction.A trader at a Chicago firm has been charged with fraud after he allegedly misappropriated $2 million worth of bitcoin and litecoin and lied about it to his employers. The owner of BitFunder, a long-defunct, bitcoin-denominated stock exchange, has been arrested by the U.S. government. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) brought two lawsuits against allegedly fraudulent cryptocurrency investment schemes yesterday.The Massachusetts Securities Division is charging a resident of the state with violating securities and business laws through an initial coin offering (ICO).Coincheck, the Japanese cryptocurrency exchange that saw major losses in a recent hack, is reportedly being hit by another lawsuit demanding refund of cryptocurrency assets.ADVERTISINGGoogle, Facebook, Twitter have banned advertisement involving cryptocurrency and ICOs.SEIZURE OF CRYPTOBUSINESSESAt least 44 cryptocurrency companies have been requested by authorities to seize their business activity. Half of the requests target companies launching ICOs.Massachusetts Secretary of State William Galvin ordered 18moons, Across Platforms, Mattervest, Pink Ribbon and Sparkco to cease their ICO campaigns Tuesday, following investigations into each of the companies.Cloud mining service Genesis Mining has been told to stop operating in the state of South Carolina, according to a cease-and-desist order.New Jersey regulators have sent a cease-and-desist letter to an online cryptocurrency investment site Bitstrade.Two cryptocurrency exchanges in Japan are reportedly set to cease operating amid growing scrutiny from regulatorsFINANCIAL INSTITUTIONSMost of the payment and banking institutions cut ties with cryptocurrency companies and prevent their customers from investing in cryptocurrencies.Visa, the payments giant, terminated a card issuer’s membership for cryptocurrency debit card providers causing to suspend their services. Commercial banks in Brazil, Canada and Chile closed accounts for cryptocurrency exchanges. Citi and Merrill Lynch prohibited customers to invest in cryptocurrency products. Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and several UK banking institutions prohibited purchases of cryptocurrency with credit cards.INTERNATIONAL EXPANSIONS AND M&AMarket participants expand their geographical presence by setting up subsidiaries worldwide and extend the range of services provided through acquisition of other companies.Coinbase is officially expanding digital money services in the U.K. and EU. The U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority granted Coinbase an e-money license. Huobi’s U.S.-based operation has registered with the U.S. government as a money services business ahead of a planned rollout of crypto-to-crypto trading this spring. Japan-based bitcoin exchange operator bitFlyer has set up shop in Europe having received a payment institution (PI) license to operate its services in the European Union.Cryptocurrency venture capital firm Digital Currency Group (DCG) has confirmed an investment in Silvergate Capital Corporation, the holding company of the bitcoin startup-friendly Silvergate Bank. Circle announced Monday that it has acquired the U.S.-based cryptocurrency exchange Poloniex, confirming recent rumours about the deal. Blockchain security startup BitGo is acquiring a digital asset custodian based in South Dakota that holds more than $12 billion in assets. Bitcoin startup BTCC has been acquired by a Hong Kong-based blockchain investment fund.