
How to Backtest on TradingViewSo, this is something that most people may know — but if you don’t you’re missing out!In the hype of crypto, a lot of us have started really foraying into the vast world of technical analysis and all included within it.If you’ve gotten deep enough within it, it’s more than likely that you’ve stumbled upon TradingView.com (I’m not paid by them — this website is just the only real resource I think that’s around that really let’s you chart a vast array of cryptocurrencies).This is the homepage for TradingView.comBacktesting Different StrategiesNow, one of my favorite features (and one of the most underrated ones on TradingView) is the ability to backtest strategies up there!“You can backtest?”Hell yeah, you can.It’s not a super fancy, machine-automated — algorithmic, type of thing. But, there’s definitely a load of value laden within being able to backtest various strategies.Cool, so we’re familiar with this screen here. It’s a common one that we’ve all ran into at some point in time.But, did you know that you could backtest strategies by hitting this button here?Please note that you MUST be using the ‘candles’ or ‘bars’ (I believe) for this to work. This feature does not work for Heikin Ashi (I know, it sucks).Back to the backtesting strategy…Once you hit that button for the ‘Replay’ (with a little replay logo, icon type of thingy) you’ll want to click on this here:When you click on this, a red line will appear:Wherever you place that red line is where you’ll “teleport” in time. You confirm the spot you want to go to by just clicking once.So, as you can see above, I had my red line set to March 15th — so, let’s go to March 15th.Please note though, that if you change the time frame from 1D to 4H for example, you’ll immediately exit ‘replay mode’.So What Can You Do in Replay Mode?Great question.Here are some of the features:The picture above is pretty self-explanatoryThis picture allows you to change the speed of the new bars. Now, initially when you enter ‘replay mode’, the bar updates will be ‘paused’. In order to play it, you’ll have to hit the play button, which can be found here:I usually don’t use this feature often, because I prefer the ‘forward’ feature.Above is a picture of the ‘forward’ button.Every time you click this button, another bar appears. Keep in mind, this is the 1D chart, so another 1D bar will appear.If you hit this button, you’ll go live.Okay, Got It — But How Do I Backtest Strategies?By just charting it like you would in any normal situation. So, let’s chart shall we?That horizontal line that I drew is a potential long-term resting support that the price is currently at.Based on what I see above, I would’ve felt pretty comfortable going long on $EOS.Let’s fast forward two weeks and see where would we be at (we started at 6415 sats):So, we ended up at 8281 sats.That’s a +29% gain over the initial investment over the course of two weeks.That’s a pretty solid return if you ask me. Now, I can feel more confident about using the indicators and strategies that I outlined above when I want to make an actual trade.ConclusionIn my opinion, this is a great way to make trades. Notice that I targeted a specific date in time and not a price in this instance.This was a long-term strategy that I used, I wasn’t looking to just scalp some quick profits day trading.