
UCHIT – TRANSFORMING THE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM THROUGH BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY.INTRODUCTIONUchit is a peer to peer (P2P) communication and distribution system that seeks to improve communication using the blockchain technology. It aims to change the world’s view about communication by making things much easier. They are dedicated to improving security systems in our communication, by allowing people to communicate directly without involving any third party, or any server. Uchit allows communicators to freely find people, text chat, voice chat, video chat, share files, share screen, host meetings, host webinars all under one platform.Uchit is here to solve the problem of the communications industry which has been a victim of shutdowns, government interference, and strict regulations stemming from decentralization. This major problem will be solved by removing the central server and allowing nodes in the network to communicate directly without outside interference.  Uchit aims to become the leading file-sharing platform for users around the world and also aims to make communication easier in the beginning but will improve upon its tools to solve the needs of people as the years go by. Some of the needs include having a marketplace to buy and sell pre-made templates of projects, having live programming editors and liveto-do boards. Users will proactively accumulate UCHT tokens as a reward for using the network.Uchit TokenUchit (UCHT) tokens are the means of Uchit’s incentivization protocol. Users can “spend” UCHT in exchange for hiring people to get into teams, requesting communication with people, requesting files from people, buying templates from teams, selling templates and assets and responding to communication or team joining requests. UCHT can also be acquired on numerous cryptocurrency exchanges on the web and will be directly exchangeable for Ethereum. Uchit tokens (UCHT) are ERC20-standardized used to power movement on network.Use of fundsThis is basically how Uchit P2P network works, The Peers are connected to perform the first application which is communication (text chat / voice chat / video chat). After the peers are connected and can communicate, they can easily collaborate by sharing files, using the same programming project folders and sharing screen.Token DistributionThere is a high unemployment rate going on globally but Uchit will solve this problem by connecting Skilled people with the Corporates who will in turn have all the needed tools to complete their projects.Uchit is unique among other communication networks because they believe communication should be decentralized and blockchain technology should be used for maximum security. There is also low risk of shutdowns as others experience.Uchit introduces a hub of communication and collaborative tools for both individuals, professionals and business entities which isn’t available with existing tools. Uchit will provide the following services: communication with friends and families, collaboration for programmers, musicians, artists, communication between investors, projects, freelancers, and enterprise use for corporates.We want to build the ultimate collaboration and communication platform which will help friends and family who are looking for fast end-end text/voice/video chat and file sharing, teams who want to work on projects together, businesses which wants to hire professionals from overseas, people who want to host webinar event, business meetings etc.Uchit aims at solving multiple problems and wants to bring the tools needed by industry professionals and businesses all under 1 platform. The Uchit foundation has its backbone as CRASS Infotech, a leading Video Game Publishers of South Asia. The purpose of the UCHT ICO crowdsale is to distribute UCHT tokens to the market to obtain funds for the project. Coins are only used on the Uchit network and platform.Visit our website - https://uchit.info/Our whitepaper : www.uchit.infoVisit us on Facebook : https://www.facebook.com/Uchit-207729296639497My bitcoin profile : https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=2067551