
Family Offices want to embrace the madness…that is #cryptoThe thing with people looking after lots of money is they dont have to spend or deploy it, or do they…In the past few months I have delivered keynote addresses, chaired various stages and moderated panels at the Family Office event in Dubai in March, the world biggest Investment meet up AIM Congress again in Dubai during April where the theme was Sustainable Investing and where once again Blockchain hiejacked the agenda and stole the show. Everyone wants a piece and I now have a full calendar speaking at dozens of Family Offices events all over the world. #Crypto is hot #Blockchain is hotter..! Family Offices are a conservative bunch and they feel they are not on the bus.Many Family Offices, Sovereign Funds and HNW are drawn to my comments that “Capitalism in its current form is in end game”. Shock horror really! The room physically squirms as I explain why? And reveal the truth about new Crypto Capital Markets and how they work.I show them live Crypto Capital Markets in action pooling $5.9billion thus far in 2018 alone and worth over $1trillion in Mkt Cap. It isnt going anywhere except to $4trillion, then $20trillon and will pass current capital markets quicker than people imagine.Family Offices ask me this question: When will my current investments be under threat?My answer: Now.Any investment in every Industry, Organisation and business model is being dis-intermediated by Blockchain technologies. The value is therefore falling. Along with the value of fiat currencies… It will all going to zero.Blockchain offers the opportunity to completely reinvent and design new operating models that kill off the dinosaurs. That expose the weak, the fat and comfortable that rely on vested interests of inefficient business and industry models that locks in stranded cost, to feed the layers of inefficiency (the brokers, intermediaries that stand with their hands out waiting to get paid) for doing nothing.It is no surprise Family Offices are fed up with VCs and traditional Fund models and they are now looking to go direct often for the first time in decades. Preferring not to rely on the Venture Capital model who place bets on several projects in the hope they strike it lucky. Well the crypto world does not operate like this, and let us not forget technical and fundamentals are not much use either. Neither is overlaying a tired old VC model on Blockchain opportunities will just lose you money. The store of value is different.My favourite comment when I was on a panel at MIT in March was from a VC chap barely old enough the shave he said. “We look for Management Team first!” That old nob. The A Team rubbish. I have never met a CEO that has experience in managing a decentralised business, or a CFO that can cascade revenues models into a tokenomics structure, its all rather new. What good is an experienced team that have never worked in crypto? And then most founders in crypto world of ICOs have never run a business before.Crypto investors know it is always proposition first (and how this in engineered as a store of value and onto the Blockchain) and we can always find the right people to supplement the team.Capital Markets isnt working and is being overtaken by a new Crypto version. And Family Offices want a piece of the action.There are other forces at play of course. When combined with the flawed Keynsian approach of creating random new capital and pumping this into the economy to artificially supress interest rates and inflation has destroyed 90% of the value of all fiat currencies. And because central banks have lost control of supply (or are they following instructions) everything is worth less anyway as value is depleted and fiat currencies fall to zero. Within a decade the dollar with be worthless. So for Family Offices doing nothing is not an option.So what to do… Join the crypto collective or sit back…Embrace the madness which is Crypto or Invest in Blockchain businesses as a legitimate hedging strategy, what we refer to as social investing at scale.Investing in Crypto is an entirely different proposition and requires a new understanding of how value is created, stored and exchanged. What we call tokenomics, the secret sauce of everything crypto. And few understand it or can engineer tokens that work for all stakeholders.And on that subject I have been asked to run some Tokenomics Classes for Family Offices to learn the basics as we showcase the projects that tick the box for investing at scale. So how do you recognise a unicorn and billion dollar business…Well we are launching 3 right now.“Ignorance is Strengthened”Join the queue like everyone else…Contact the author NA@chainstarter.org at www.Chainstarer.org at www.NickAyton.com