
NEXT.Exchange Progress Update #5Hello, dear community members and NEXT followers. A lot has happened and there have been quite a few changes made to the NEXT platform in the background. As you are all most likely aware, our beta platform has been up since the 14th of February, with our ICO participants acting as testers — helping us drive our platform to completion and fine-tune rough edges.So, a special thank you to everyone who has been involved since that point.On-boarding of general NEXT token holders.As of recent, we have enabled other users to start depositing their digital assets into their wallets within the NEXT.Exchange platform. While at that, we are aware that certain users have experienced balance discrepancies (a transaction goes through on a respective Blockchain, yet the balance takes a while to display), we are aware of this issue and our team has found a remedy for it. Additionally, this affects only a small percentage of users. It’s worth noting that all assets transferred are indeed safe and secure. We are in the process of migrating to new servers in order to speed up our operations and efficiency.Unique Milestones Achieved.Over the course of the last few weeks, and together with our Beta participants, NEXT has managed to reach a few unique milestones pertaining to the exchange of digital assets. Through our platform, the worlds first direct fiat to altcoin purchases for SAFEX, ECA, and ETN have been successfully executed.Worlds first direct ETN-EUR transaction executed on the NEXT platform. https://twitter.com/NextExchange/status/975348508478922755Worlds first direct ECA-USD transaction executed on the NEXT platform. https://twitter.com/ElectracoinECA/status/987043637786828801Worlds first direct SAFEX-USD transaction executed on the NEXT platform.https://twitter.com/SafexNews/status/982315322022625280Despite our platform still being in its beta stage, these are significant and noteworthy achievements for the entire cryptosphere as a whole. We’ve had users ask if we believe that our platform will alleviate BTC dominance over all other projects within the industry. Well, we certainly believe that we have it within our power and competence to shake up the field. What are your thoughts? Leave them in the comments below.NEXT Token burn.As mentioned on our social media profiles and official Telegram group, we will be burning unsold ICO tokens. On the 17th of April, we burned a considerable amount of tokens, which drove the supply down to . . .45 million NEXT. There is an additional wallet that needs to be burned, which will push the total supply down to 25 million NEXT.With this news, I would like to mention that we are also planning on leaving the Ethereum Blockchain within the near future in favor of more scalable and efficient technology that is better aligned with our goals and which will provide our users with maximum up time even under peak load times. (More details to be revealed in the future). At the moment we are exploring in-house options and have been leading correspondences with a few well established organizations within the field in terms of taking advantage of the tech that they have to offer.New Coin/Token integrations and what we are working with.Most of the ERC20 tokens that are available within our ERC20 Tokenmarket will be available on our full scope exchange within the near future. From our conception, we have been closely and happily collaborating with a few communities and projects. Such as — SKY, RUP, ETN, ECA, SAFEX in terms of integrating them into our platform.Additionally, we plan on integrating the following digital assets onto our platform in the near future.LoyalCoin (LYL)- Integrated, pending testing.ColossusXT (ColX)- Integrated, pending testing.Kali Coin (KALI)- Integrated, pending testing.Creativecoin (CREA)Solar Bankers Coin (SLB)Sumokoin (SUMO)Ravencoin (RVN), due to popular demand.IOTA (MIOTA)Wysker (WYS)OriginTrail (TRAC)Universa (UTNP)Skraps (SKRP)All of these digital assets will have classical pairings (BTC, ETH, LTC), as well as NEXT and USD/EUR. Additionally, the listing fees imposed upon projects, where applicable, do go to the profit sharing distribution for NEXT tokenholders.At the moment we are booked completely with integrations until the middle-end of May.Improved security measures.After receiving multiple requests to integrate Google Authenticator — we have done so.The ability to enable Google Authenticator will soon be available to users. Additionally, the option to disable Authy and all 2FA will be made available to users within the near future.Exchange Interface Upgrades and Changes.The current exchange interface that we employ will not be in effect for long. We plan on revitalizing our platform and providing a superb user experience through the integration of an entirely new design interface. A peak of the new homepage can be seen here. A full preview can be found here. Design updates are expected to be fully complete and integrated within 1–2 weeks.Where we are headed now.At the moment our developer team is focused on fine-tuning the platform and preparing it for public launch. We aim to open up to the public with a fine tuned platform, sleek and responsive interface, and a wide variety of digital assets which our users can bask in.We plan on proceeding with the following actions within the near future:Complete refining of the NEXT platform.Full new design integrationPlatform public launchMarketing campaign post launchAdditional NEXT token burnPotentially a new bounty campaignOwn Blockchain deploymentNew WhitepaperRefreshed roadmapThat is all for Progress Update #5.Thank you.