
Our first paying customer on our crypto SaaS servicePhoto by Doran Erickson on UnsplashIt’s been just over 2 months since we launched Cryterval — a new SaaS launched by myself and Josh Bruce. Our dollar-cost averaging (DCA) solution for people who want to start investing into cryptocurrencies, but using a more regular and rational approach.Everyone who signed up to the service over the first weekend received a 30–day trial, and this was dropped down to a 7-day trial after the introductory period. Although we had high expectations for people signing up to a plan after their trial period, very few people did. However, this was expected since crypto trading is fairly new for most people, and dollar-cost averaging even more of a niche market to target.Although we had a lot of users visit the site, and we had some great feedback from our post on Product Hunt, we were a little demotivated by the conversion rate. Given Crypterval solves our problem to trade recurringly without incurring high fees, we thought we were onto something. Either way, we accepted it’s still early days and stayed positive.6 weeks and 6 days ?Our positivity paid off, 6 weeks and 6 days later we got our first paying subscriber who signed up to the ‘basic plan’, paying £2.99 a month. Even though it’s just a single customer, the feeling when we got the email notification was euphoric ?. We got our second wind, and we were motivated to jump back into the code to add more features for our newly converted customer! ?‍?The end before the beginning ?We launched Crypterval around the time Stripe announced the end of accepting Bitcoin payments. We probably should have read the terms of service at that point. Shortly after receiving our first paying customer, we received an email from Stripe saying we violated their terms, as they could no longer support services remotely related to ‘digital currency’. Crypterval unfortunately fell under their prohibited services list. Their response was that it’s not them, but their banking partners that prevent them from supporting such services.So what now? ?We were a little shocked initially, but since we both work in startups, we took the news in our stride. So from today onwards we’re making Crypterval free for everyone, and instead opted to support the service from donations in the form BTC, ETH and LTC. The addresses to donate are now live on website (in the footer).We’d like to thank everyone who has supported us so far and as always we’d love to get your feedback and ideas, so we can make Crypterval the best dollar-cost averaging solution out there.#HODL ✌️