
Meet RightMesh Here in May!As we quickly approach the Crowd Contribution Round of our TGE on May 30th, the RightMesh team is spreading our vision of connecting the next billion by speaking at conferences and events across North America. If you are in the area for one of the dates listed below, please reach out to us on Telegram and learn how to join the Nodebody movement!May 3rd: Representing RightMesh AG’s parent company, Left, a team of us will be attending TechBrew in Vancouver. This one day event brings together top talent, tech leaders, and local service providers to build connections while enjoying live demos of featured companies. This will also mark the countdown to the Technology Impact Awards as finalists will be announced (fingers crossed for Left).May 8th: RightMesh project Co-Founder and COO, Chris Jensen will be speaking at the Economic Summit 2018 in Coquitlam, Canada on the blockchain panel. He is looking forward to sharing the stage with Frans Tjallingli, Co-Founder & CEO of First Coin Capital, Dr. Peter Chow-White, Professor at Simon Fraser University, and moderator Kevin Rathbun, Transition Advisory Service at Rise Advisors.May 8th: RightMesh project Co-Founder and CEO, John Lyotier, will be speaking on a panel on ‘Women’s Leadership in the Digital Economy’ put on by the WCT (Women in Communication and Technology). This is a topic that John is passionate about and has enacted several initiatives over the past few years to ensure parity in the workforce (for a more in depth view, read John’s article ‘Overcoming Gender Bias in Life, Technology, and Blockchain — One Man’s Opinion’). John will be joining Shann McGrail, Co-Founder of Devreve Inc; Zara Gray, Senior Advisor, Diversity & Inclusion of Goldcorp Inc; and Joanne Stanley, Executive Director of WCT.May 11th–12th: Brianna MacNeil, our Product Manager Blockchain, will be heading east to attend the Ethereal Summit in New York City. This conference brings together builders, philosophers, policymakers and humanitarians from across the blockchain space. Brianna is most looking forward to hearing from Vanessa Grellet, Executive Director, Social Impact at ConsenSys and Houman Haddad, Finance Officer of the World Food Programme.May 14th–16th: RightMesh project Co-Founders, John Lyotier and Chris Jensen, will be joining Brianna MacNeil in New York to attend Consensus 2018. Put on by CoinDesk, this conference is sure to not disappoint. With over 250 speakers and 4000 attendees it will bring together the global blockchain community.May 17th: John Lyotier, RightMesh project CEO, will be jumping on a plane and heading across the United States to speak at the fnIRL Global Conference in San Francisco. This conference brings together over 100 tech founders and covers the most popular topics raised in the founders network forum.May 22nd: RightMesh project CTO, Dr. Jason Ernst and Marketing and Events Specialist, Amber McLennan, will be attending AiDecentralized in Toronto, Canada. AiDecentralized is an ACM Global Initiative that brings 870,000 AI Practitioners from across the world together with 280,000 Blockchainers and Cryptographers. Dr. Jason Ernst is looking forward to speaking at the conference and discussing the possibilities for intersection between the two technologies.