
MARGINLESS THE BEST SOLUTION FOR YOUR BETTINGBACKGROUNDMarginless is a platform that supports bettors to bet safely, quickly, and in full control. The betting industry that has such a huge market share brings Marginless to bring all the convenience to its users and the huge profits it gains.Marginless has all the solutions to the problems facing the majority of today’s bettors. Marginless users make it possible to place bets, hold full control of bets that are deposited, and even give all users the opportunity to become a dealer and create their own stakes to get jackpot tickets every month.MARGINLESS, SOLUTION OF UNFAIR OPPORTUNITYOne of the problems that bosses always face is an unfair opportunity. This is the reason why bidders are struggling to make a profit. Fear of losing the bandar on a regular basis until the rules are subject to extra taxes by the government forcing the sports bounty to fill up to 8.5% margin on all bundled bet. In addition, the city that managed to beat this unjust margin is also taxed by the government.Marginless that operates as a betting operator that does not require high risk management, allows bettors to earn a 1% industry-wide bet that will cost only those who win. For example Team X against Team Y, Pet A puts a 100 MRS bet for Team X victory on odds 2.0 being matched with a B subsurer who bet 100 MRS for Team Y on odds 2.0. Later, whichever team wins, the winning bets will earn 198 MRS in return.MARGINLESS REMOVES LIMITS FOR WINNERSThe next problem facing regular bidders is the limits for winners. Some companies sometimes do not let one of the guys keep winning. Although, some companies claim that the winners will be welcomed there, the reality is actually the opposite.Marginless has never had a problem like this. In Marginles all the winners will be welcomed. Winners will be allowed to share their strategies and insights that benefit other users. In Marginless every winner will get a monthly jackpot lottery ticket because it is not only active, but can achieve different bets, such as win streaks.MARGINLESS GUARANTEE TRANSPARENCYThe bets can also lose the victory that is already in front of the eye, it is due to the lack of transparency. Just because of a mistake in spelling, odds errors or for various other reasons, nothing can be done to get back on your winnings.Marginless ensures betting transparency so you do not have to worry about the bettor who pays your winnings. Marginless offers the user a choice to bet or not and also celebrates right after the events at stake end.Marginless will not make you wait, after the bet is placed and accepted by our moderator staff, your opponent’s bet will be held by the contract until the event is over. After that, all information related to the bet will be automatically extracted from an independent source. And once everything is confirmed, the win will be sent to the winner’s wallet.MARGINLESS CONTRA LONG PAYMENTThe fact that a third party to transfer funds from your account to a bank in a regular sportsbook tends to take a long time to pay. Even if you win the bet, there is no guarantee that the bet will reach your bank within a few days. So you still have to wait for the money into your new savings book can be used. In addition, the limitation of withdrawal in one day becomes a related issue.Marginless driven by the MRS Utility Token platform means that the Fiat currency will not be used in the whole betting process. Use Tokens and AltCoins offer security, completeness and speed as a reward. Marginless Token allows you as a winner to quickly confirm your account payments and will be processed within minutes. Marginless Purse allows you to save assets up to 30 different AltCoins, allowing you to deposit or withdraw AltCoins.MARGINLESS CONTRA OLD PROCEDURES KYCRegular betting has a very long and strict KYC procedure. Especially if they ask for it when you will attract the victory that has been obtained. In many cases, betting allows the user to save money without any restrictions or KYC procedures, but you will have to complete all the procedures before withdrawing money from your account. It takes a long process for months to collect the necessary documents to get acc, while the winning result is still stuck in the betting wallet. Not to mention personal data that has been sent at risk of cyber attacks to data leakage.Marginless working with Altcoins provides a friendly and easy KYC procedure. We offer simple registration and will not retain any user’s personal information. It is also not subject to regulatory oversight.MARGINLESS HAS A BETTER CHOICE UNLIMITLimitations of the type of bet sometimes become a barrier for bettors to place bets. Because if there are only a few or even one type of bet available, the participating users are also limited.Marginless is the right solution for you as a betting to engage in bets in all fields. Not even just betting, you as a Marginless user can also contribute to a bookie so the game will run in accordance with your rules as a bookie. The choice of bets with varying scenarios will create a different atmosphere in each bet.Marginless is the perfect solution for those of you who want the convenience, speed to diversity of scenarios in bets. No more worrying about the classic problems that occur because in Marginless the problem will never happen.For more information visit:Website : https://www.marginless.io/Blog : https://medium.com/@MarginlessFacebook : https://www.facebook.com/MarginlessCommunityTwitter : https://twitter.com/marginlessNetANN Thread : https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3195377.0Reddit : https://www.reddit.com/r/MarginlessNetwork/Telegram : https://www.reddit.com/r/MarginlessNetwork/Whitepaper : https://www.marginless.io/docs/MRS_Whitepaper.pdfMy profil Link BTT : https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1042300