
Quantstamp — Altcoin Appreciation MonthWith the month of April drawing to a close we are at our second to last article of the Altcoin Appreciation Month series. Today we’re looking at Quantstamp to wrap up this week. QSP is a token that I had little experience with and was introduced to it in one of the telegram groups I read (GAT isn’t in it for the record). Speaking of controversy, Quantstamp came into being as a response to the DAO hack and the team thinking that there needs to be a way to validate the security of smart contracts and dApps built on top of ETH. Quantstamp aims for their seal of approval and security check to become a major symbol of validity for projects as the cryptocurrency market matures.Quantstamp had their ICO in November 2017. The team was able to raise a bit over $30million and distributed 650 million QSP tokens out of the near 1 billion total supply. The price per token at the time of the ICO was $0.072 per token. Current price of the token is as follows: $0.19 or 2073 Sats or 0.00028534 ETH. Total supply for QSP is 976 million tokens and the circulating supply is 617 million. Market cap of the token is at $117 million and placing this token in our mid cap range. QSP is currently ranked at 138 on coinmarketcap.QSP is an ERC20 token and the team aims to build “the first scalable security-audit protocol designed to find vulnerabilities in Ethereum smart contracts.” In other words, the team is looking to do security testing of new coins and tokens before they are released in order to minimize bugs and prevent loss of funds to those who are early investors in a project by patching security vulnerabilities before they are exploited.That’s all well and good but let’s hop into how QSP will actually work. QSP is built off the Ethereum blockchain, so naturally they will be focusing on tokens to audit that are released on the Ethereum platform too; however, the team is building a protocol that will be platform agnostic so other smart contracting platforms such as NEO will be able to be audited too. For the audition, Quatstamp has a double-headed approach. Those two systems are an automated software verification system and an automated bounty payout system.For software verification the “Verification Node” will apply audit techniques from methods that are submitted by Contributers to the platform. The techniques offered may include concolic tests, static analysis, and symmbolic execution. Furthermore, automated reasoning tools like SAT and SMT should be available. Contributors who submit tests will be compensated in the form of QSP tokens. The validation nodes are quite energy intensive, so those who run Validation nodes will be compnesated in QSP. Furthermore, to become a validator, users must stake QSP tokens to earn rewards.How all of this will work is as follows, a company or development team will be creating a smart contract on the Ethereum network (or others). That team will want to make sure its product is bulletproof before release and they will (hopefully) decide to submit their contract to the QSP protocol to have it audited. To have your contract audited the smart contract and source code is sent from your wallet to QSP with QSP tokens. After that occurs, on the next ETH block, validators will perform security checks on the smart contract and code. Those validators will come to a consensus and append a proof-of-audit and report to the following block. A team may choose whether its report is public or private. That’s how the process will work for a company, now for those who wish to earn QSP helping to audit.The first mechanism for earning QSP for regular users is bounty payouts. When a company or team submits that contract for auditing, they also send QSP tokens with it. A set of those QSP tokens are used as bounty rewards for bug finders. In addition, to the tokens a deadline of when the bugs must be found is submitted too. The bounty reward and deadline is set by the company submitting their contract. If the deadline for finding bugs passes and none are found the bounty tokens are returned to the submitting team.Another system for earning QSP is through Quantstamps’ own Proof-of-Caring system. This system rewards QSP holders and community members. To earn tokens through this system, users submit their proof, such as holding your tokens in a wallet (not on an exchange), contributing to social media outreach, and any other community outreach activities(I imagine this article would qualify as something like that, maybe I should try this out). When you submit proof you will receive an airdrop in the form of tokens from an ICO that QSP has audited.Another reason to hold QSP besides the rewards are the ability to participate in protocol governance. QSP holders control all upgrades to protocol validation smart contracts, and node upgrades. The gonvernance makes use of a time-locked multi-sig where any token holder may propose a change. Then changes are made based on how many votes a proposal accrues, so more votes equals the change happening faster. Changes approved by all members would occur within an hour. For every 5% that don’t vote the time for the change to occur doubles. The time for the change to occur quadruples, however, for every 5% that votes against a change.There is currently a 2018 roadmap that was circulated back in January for the outlook of the Quantstamp team. I do not know if that map is being adhered to but it is provided below all the same. Most of the recent announcements from the team have been in regards to new projects that are being included on the platform to be audited.QSP is currently being traded on 10 exchanges with two of them taking the majority of the daily volume. Those two exchanges are Binance and Huobi. Binance holds the top spot with 39% of daily volume through its BTC pairing. Huobi sits in the 2nd and 3rd spots with its ETH and BTC pairings respectively. Binance also has the 4th and 5th positions with its ETH and BNB pairings. All together those two exchanges account for 97% of daily volume for the token. Two other exchanges that I use that list the token are Kucoin and IDEX. Links to the two major exchanges follow.Binance — https://www.binance.com/Huobi — https://www.huobi.pro/To follow the Quantstamp team and learn more about their project please see the following links:Website — https://quantstamp.com/CMC — https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/quantstamp/Twitter — https://twitter.com/quantstamp?lang=en&lang=enWhitepaper — https://whitepaperdatabase.com/quantstamp-qsp-whitepaper/Thank you for reading today’s article. It was nice to be able to sit down and examine a coin in the middle of the day instead of in the middle of the night like most of this week. This concludes the last full week of Altcoin Appreciation Month and plans for Monday’s final post will be announced on Sunday. For a full catalogue of all articles release you can check here on Medium, all posts from this past series include the phrase “Altcoin Appreciation Month” in their title.I am not associated with the Quantstamp team, I am however a bagholder of the token. Follow me here or on Twitter @thant1194 or on InvestFeed @thant11 to receive updates to all of my articles as they are released or to hear my thoughts on crypto. Thanks again for reading! I have to return some video tapes.