
April Product UpdateAs the month comes to a close, we are excited to share progress on the Totle platform and discuss our involvement in the crypto conference circuit.Product UpdateFor the last few months, the team has been working hard on the Totle portfolio tool and DEX aggregator platform. We’ve been extremely busy collecting feedback from the community and iterating on the product. We can’t wait for you to see it in action. Stay tuned for your beta invite!Here are a few example screens showing off the new design direction. The goal is to simplify non-custodial crypto portfolio management while giving you insight into the network of DEXs we aggregate.Rebalance your portfolio of crypto assets by adjusting sliders representing allocation percentages. Plus: get a look into the DEXs we aggregate.Add any supported ERC-20 token to your portfolio of crypto assets. Trade directly from your wallet.We will continue to collect great feedback from our community and implement the updates and improvements. We invite you to join our groups or email us if you have any suggestions or ideas. We’re always happy to hear from you.EventsWe covered a lot of ground in April. Our CEO David took the stage in a few conferences from Michigan to San Francisco. We also checked in on StartEngine’s ICO 2.0 Conference last week in Santa Monica.On to May… We are sponsoring The Crypto Invest Summit in LA from April 30th through May 2nd. (More on that below.)Then we’re off to New York for the Consensus and Etheral events between the 10th — 17th of May. We’ll be there to showcase Totle and our vision for the product. We will make sure to keep you updated on all our channels. If you’d like to meet up at any of these events, comment and let us know.Join Us Next Week at Crypto Invest SummitWe are happy to announce that we are sponsoring the Crypto Invest Summit (April 30th — May 2nd) at the LA Convention Center.Come meet the Totle team at this year’s Crypto Invest SummitOur CEO David is speaking at two panels: Successful Crypto Investing on Tuesday at the main stage and Disruptive Blockchain & Distributed Ledger Innovations on Wednesday at Stage 1. We’ll also have a booth set up in the exhibit hall. Come by and say hello!Looking forward to making your crypto trading easier, more secure, and less centralized.Remember to follow us on Twitter and Telegram for current updates.