
CoinCrowd Partners with BlockShow in Rome: Event CoverageA Detailed Coverage of BlockShow’s Meetup in RomeYesterday between 3 and 4 in the afternoon, BlockShow’s team arrived at Luiss Enlabs, carrying with them all the colorful banners and stands to prepare for the highly anticipated event. Registration was set for 5:00 PM, but people started showing up a little before that. Excitement was in the air and the hype was building up.A little after the registration table was set up, Addy Crezee walked in accompanied by Caterina Ferrera — the event’s first speaker. They both greeted the staff and took in the environment by touring around the spaces dedicate to the meetup.The conference room started filling up, the audience taking their seats, the room buzzing with energy.It was both surprising and pleasant to note the diversity in the audience, ranging from the young teens to the experienced adults, along with a considerable female presence. The diversity was refreshing, promising in its folds a better future for all new upcoming technologies, with more inclusive and curious communities.At 5:40 Addy took the stage and was welcomed with a big round of applause. He started off by sharing his excitement of being in Rome and thanked the audience for coming, his smile touching his eyes.“We will have five speakers and three startup pitches in the end” he continued, flipping through the event’s agenda. However, before going any further he went on to explain what BlockShow really is, interacting with the excited audience. He then continued to thank the partners of the show for assisting his team and helping with the arrangements.And then the show began with the first speaker: Caterina Ferrera.Caterina’s speech focused on women’s roles in blockchain technology. She debunked the idea that women are few in this sector. “We have so many tech women and nerd girls in this field”, she said, starting from the past with important examples such as Ada Byron and Katherine Johnson. She continued by mentioning many other famous women whose efforts advanced technology.She concluded her speech by highlighting the idea that the future of blockchain is pink, because the biggest industries ranging from cosmetic surgery to makeup to childcare products, are related to women. The main obstacle women face with blockchain technology — in Ferrera’s opinion — is the fact that there aren’t projects dedicated to them and their fields of interest. So far blockchain technology has been used mainly for wallets, exchanges and everything related to cryptocurrency, but she hopes that blockchain will be everywhere in the next 5 years, much like how the internet is now: an indispensable aspect of our lives.Addy thanked Caterina for her speech and welcomed the second speaker, Tiziano Tridico.Tiziano focused on the power of communication, showing how opinions can affect the masses and consequently the market. He presented many examples, such as the McAfee effect. When John McAfee — the creator of the McAfee antivirus — got involved in cryptocurrency, he kept boosting and affecting the market with his twitter posts.He also mentioned a few widespread phenomena in the cryptocurrency field such as FOMO (fear of missing out) and FUD (Fear, Uncertainty, Doubt), which drive people into making haste, and more often than not, reckless decisions. Tiziano ended his speech by urging people to be more informed in order to avoid FOMO/FUD behavior.Addy thanked Tiziano and welcomed on stage Federico Tenga, the third speaker, who emphasized Bitcoin’s payment problems and how blockchain slows all payment processes. He went on to suggest off-chain payment channels, favoring a scalability solution over consensus.With a firm handshake, Addy thanked Federico and presented the fourth speaker Eagle An, the President at Bankorus — the world’s first AI-powered blockchain wealth management platform. Eagle went on to explain his project, an extensive system that offers solutions to access crypto with traditional assets.Last but not least, the fifth speaker was Luca Carabetta — a member of the Italian Parliament. Addy joined him on stage for a fireside chat, and discussed how Italy is on the blockchain train, and wondered about Italy’s perspective. Luca believes that Italy is a heavily regulated country but with understanding and awareness, this new technology can be integrated and widely accepted.Then Addy finally introduced the three selected projects. Each project had to present their pitch and convince the audience to vote for them, as the winner would be eligible to go to Berlin with a chance of winning 50 thousand Euros.The three projects were:ExACTA — Smart Contracts For Innovation.HARA — Decentralized Agriculture Data Exchange.VentureX — Decentralized Mining And Equity Fund.The audience raised their hands to vote their favorite project and HARA won the opportunity to go to Berlin and win the ultimate BlockShow prize.The evening ended on an extremely positive note. The audience was invited to the networking area where further socialization took place.It has been a great event and we at CoinCrowd are so happy that we had a chance to take part in it!We invite our followers to keep a close eye on our social media outlets for any future events, as they are precious networking opportunities and the right places for inspiration.For any inquiries please don’t hesitate to contact us on our Telegram group.