
Turning Advertising on its HeadJoin us as we massively change and redirect one of the biggest money flows in the world’s economy: Advertising.Value Chain Video Here: (45 seconds)One Sphera has found a massive need in the global advertising system that is virtually untapped. Word of mouth was THE major driver in business — that has changed. It is no longer word of Mouth, it’s word of Mouse. The world communicates via social media, but it and advertising are broken and extractive.Word of mouth is the most powerful form of advertising. Why? Because when you help a friend with a recommendation for a product or service, that information has far more credibility and weight than paid advertising in any medium.Monetized word-of-mouth is what One Sphera calls their Value Chain Model, a multi-layered, transaction-based solution that combines …shared advertising dollars via trusted referrals (gossip for good),a dynamic, multi-layered reward system,a loyalty program that actually works, and…building engaged communities organized around shared interests, needs and offers, and collaborative projects.The Blockchain-based, disruptive Value Chain Advertising System radically changes the relationship between businesses, advertisers, and customers, building a true collaborative economy.Check out more about it here!How Value Chain Advertising WorksWe reward participants for what they are already doing through our integrated Blockchain and game-based rewards system. Transform your customer base into an extension of your sales force.1. You set a budget, rewards, and prizes for your campaign.2. One Sphera rewards your customers for sharing your offer with their friends through word of mouth and social media.3. Customers are rewarded with prizes and cash based on the impact of their individual contribution.4. You reap the rewards with new customers and increased reach and profits.With the Value Chain Model, advertisers can track and reward their customers for things they already do, such as posting an image on Instagram, re-sharing a Facebook post, posting a review or inviting friends to Like a page. Advertisers get what they want: to sell more product to more customers, expand their visibility, gain more awareness, and even encourage positive social behavior. Consumers get what they want: respect, acknowledgement, and financial reward for contributing real value to the company’s bottom line.Customers are transformed from being just a managed commodity based in the old extractive paradigm to becoming an extension of the salesforce in the new one. One Sphera’s Value Chain Model inverts the economic pyramid, building a basis for a true collaborative economy.Leadership Team: The One Sphera team of Bill Melton (Verifone founder and fintech visionary and pioneer), Dr. Bud James (social media pioneer and first CTO of MySpace), and Richard Flyer (collaborative community visionary and One Sphera CEO) have joined forces to massively change and redirect the flow of money through one of our global economy’s biggest industries: advertising — by sharing wealth with those bringing value to the company: customers.After 5 years in development, One Sphera has launched an equity crowdfunding campaign with our cryptocurrency, Community Coin as a perk.CLICK HERE: Beta User and/or Invest NowContact Richard Flyer, (775) 721–3287, richard@onesphera.com