
HUBweek Change Maker: Rebecca LiebmanCo-founder of LearnLuxRebecca is the Co-Founder of LearnLux, a financial education company for millennials. She has a passion for startups, education, and the amazing things that happen when they intersect. Rebecca was named one of Forbes’ 30 Under 30 in 2016 and most recently took home $400,000 in investment from the likes of Ashton Kutcher at the Sound Ventures Pitch Competition during SXSW. She founded two startups by the age of 20, lived in Kenya, completed environmental research in Western Europe, and worked for some amazing Boston-based startups that went through the MassChallenge and Techstars programs.Check out our interview with Rebecca below!Let’s start with the basics. What is LearnLux?LearnLux helps people navigate their biggest financial decisions.LearnLux’s online tools provide unbiased, customized financial education to make finance more accessible and bring financial services into the 21st century.Was there an “aha” moment that inspired you to start this company?There were a bunch of moments. When I was living in Kenya, it was clear how different the financial system was. Then seeing the recession in 2008 and realizing everyone in my generation had grown up feeling some aftermath from that. When I was working at MIT, I realized that even the smartest people I knew couldn’t figure out how to open a retirement account. Most people think they are bad at finance, but financial services hasn’t evolved to where society is today.What has been the biggest challenge for you and your team as LearnLux continues to grow?There is never one big challenge — there are constantly a thousand little things that many times intertwine.If you could give one piece of advice to other young entrepreneurs, what would it be and why?Only start a company if you are obsessed with changing some part ofthe world. If you don’t love it, everything will be hard. If you’reobsessed, even the most difficult days will be worth it.What impact do you hope to have as a Change Maker through your venture?Making personal finance decisions is ubiquitous for everyone, but right now it’s an awful process. I hope we can change people’s relationships with money and create financial services that works for society as it is today.