
SHIVOM-THE ECOSYSTEM TO TAKE GENOMICS TO HIGHER LEVELSINTRODUCTIONTechnology advancement has affected every facet of our lives including our health, precisely, genomics. Genomic medicine has improved dramatically, making life more comfortable in this modern world. Blockchain is also another technological advancement that has brought a significant economical improvement into the lives of the ordinary people. Imagine these two wonderful technological advancements being brought together, what do you think would be the results? Am sure you have started asking yourself, ‘’can this be possible?’’. Am happy to inform you that SHIVOM is making this happen. Shivom is bringing these technologies together to create a revolutionary medical genomics ecosystem that will open up healthcare opportunities for all. Shivom ensures that data is owned by the data donors themselves and transparency in its usage.Shivom offers the maiden integrated solution for patients and genome data donors to securely store their sequenced genome. This ecosystem will provide an open web-marketplace for other providers such as pharmaceuticals, research organizations, governments, patient-support groups and insurance companies to add their apps and services, alongside genomic data analytics and personalized medicine.Shivom researchers will use data-driven tools and techniques which will significantly improve healthcare systems and services around the globe. Blockchain technology will be our technological partner of choice because of its ability to address trust issues, including patient consent, data ownership, data integrity, and authentication and also managing complex data rights and allowing fine-grained access using smart contracts.Shivom allows genome data donors to own their data and access rights, gain rewards for sharing their genomic data on the blockchain, enables pharmaceutical companies to refine drug development, users have full and fine-grained control of who can access the data, patients get personalized health information and also creates a dynamic ecosystem in which the community can identify and remove potential health risks before they become serious.The cost of DNA sequencing has fallen greatly and it is even possible that the cost of generating a person’s entire genome by the end of the decade will be less than $100. It can be projected that, we will see dramatically lower costs for genomic analysis services and this will make personalized healthcare insights accessible to almost everybody around the world.Benefits of genomic sequencing includes; identifying the best course of care for patients with a particular condition, prediction of disease risk, identifying new drug targets, disease prevention, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis.If you want to share genomic data on Shivom, a cryptographic key generator is used to generate a pair of keys used by an asymmetric key algorithm and only the holder of the paired private key can gain access to your data after you have given consentUsually in clinical trial studies, it becomes difficult to find out the group of people who will respond to treatment, and those who will not respond too, identifying the cause of their unresponsiveness becomes a challenge. All these are due to the fact that limited population size is frequently used for the study. This makes research work time consuming and costly. Researchers and clinicians on the Shivom platform can now use genomic data to find out which study group will respond to treatment and even go ahead to identify which study group would benefit most. This makes research work cost effective and faster.Genomics present a unique opportunity to revolutionize programs such as screening for drug targets and corresponding drug candidates. The significant cost associated with drug development is linked to the ability to access high-quality and validated datasets from patients and shivom will provide this data on its platform to ensure value for money.We aim to build a global network of genetic counsellors who can also form a telemedicine ecosystem and this will eventually enable most people undergo genetic testing and counselling, even those without any clearly elevated genetic risks.THE OmiX TOKEN:The OmiX token is a key component that enables buying, trading, incentivizing and other services on the Shivom ecosystem, as well as part of the governance of the system. OmiX Token users have the ability to acquire premium services in the Shivom ecosystem, acquire genome sequencing kits, sponsor sequencing projects, acquire access to health/fitness apps from 3rd party providers, access the genome database, pay donors for data/participation in research studies and also to use the platform.SHIVOM ICOTotal token supply 3 billion tokensTotal tokens for crowed sale 990 millionSoft Cap 20,000ETH(already achieved)Hard Cap 75000ETH990M OmiX tokens will be sold during the ICO process.90M OmiX Tokens will be distributed to the community to grow and nurture the Shivom ecosystem, for bounty programs to leverage network effects, and for community initiatives to reward developers, entrepreneurs, and strategists.420M OmiX will be allocated for founders.300M OmiX will be allocated for advisors.600M OmiX will be secured in a smart contract, allocated to the database, and introduced into circulation as incentives.600M OmiX will be kept by the Foundation as a reserve fund for future data contribution, running the Foundation and associated non-profit R&D efforts.USE OF PROCEEDSOUR ROADMAPDr. Axel SchumacherCo-Founder & CEOPh.D. in Genetics, over 20 years of R&D leadership experience in genomics, epigenetics, biomarker discovery, Bio-IT, aging & longevity. Author of the ‘Blockchain & Healthcare Strategy Guide’, the standard compendium for the healthcare industry.Gourish SinglaCo-Founder & COOSerial Entrepreneur. Background in investment banking and wealth management. COO for the 4th company in the digital health space. Single-handedly established a unit and drove it $35 million revenueSally EavesCo-Founder & CMOExperienced Chief Technology Officer, Top 10 blockchain influencer, practicing Professor of FinTech, Global Strategic Advisor, and member of the Forbes Technology Council.Henry InesChief Innovation OfficerGlobal executive with extensive venture capital, cross-border advisory, corporate finance and entrepreneur experiences. An advisor to multiple blockchain / ICOs and tech startups in Silicon Valley and beyond.Akash GauravCo-Founder & CTOBlockchain expert, started India’s first blockchain company, Auxesis Group. An advisor to the blockchain startup Cashaa ($15 million raised).Read more on our website- https://shivom.io/Read more in our Whitepaper- https://shivom.io/files/Shivom-Executive-Summary.pdfJoin our Telegram Page- https://t.me/projshivomLike us on facebook- https://www.facebook.com/ProjectShivomOur ANN Thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3204563.0My bitcointalk profile link : https://bitcointalk.org/ index.php?action=profile;u= 1077887