
When will Builders and Institutional Investors sync up?Building a crypto ecosystem for retail investors has been underway, understood and unassailable. While Warren Buffett, Ray Dalio, Joseph Stiglitz, and other prominent economic leaders denounce Bitcoin as a store of value, different crypto projects and currencies have their many uses. The propagation of user-friendly crypto exchanges, hardware wallets, and mainstream media has made cryptoassets accessible for anyone in the world with an internet connection. A lot has been built for a retail investor who wants to define value, transact the value around the world, and be part of this new monetary system. Regardless how its detractors may define cryptoassets, the future is being built on the blockchain and citizens around the world are investing in this future.The evolution of cryptoassets for retail investors is even more impressive when you think about how developers have collaborated over the last 10 years to build an infrastructure from the ground up. For greater context, the global migration to EMV (Euromoney, MasterCard, Visa) standard for smart card technology was started in 1993. Adherents like Square, Apple Pay and the credit cards companies themselves still haven’t created an completely ubiquitous and accessible product for all global citizens. The tech roadmap has taken more than 2.5 decades and has included detours in contactless payment, two-factor authentication, and a necessary proliferation of smart hardware to support such a migration. For retail investors in cryptoassets, they have enjoyed more control and safety over their finances while building the technology in a fraction of the time.While cryptoassets are quickly evolving for retail money, there have been speed bumps in the evolution of institutional money. We joke here that in the last couple of years, everyday people are seeing progress with developments like Lightning Network, Ledger wallets, Consensys projects, and even cute CryptoKitties. In the same time period, all large institutional money has gotten is Ripple.Since the Financial Crisis in 2008, developers and investors in cryptoassets have seen their efforts bifurcated. Retail investors have already validated the efforts of early payment system developers on the blockchain. Institutional investors have yet to validate the efforts of new financial system architects. Technology has started to change the way individuals exchange value, but still years away from changing how institutions transact.In a recent podcast on Unchained, institutional investor veteran Ari Paul reflected on the exuberance from prices of cryptoassets in 2017. To paraphrase, he attributed one of the big reasons for Bitcoin’s price hitting $19k was that retail investors were trying to front run institutional money that was supposed to be coming to the table. You can listen to the podcast here. This notion is characterized below as predicting “When the Smart Money Arrives”.Similarly, an article from Jill Carlson outlined the buildup of cryptoassets in the last couple of years. To paraphrase, she describes why infrastructure matters as decentralized infrastructure was built in 2015–2016 piggybacking off the proliferation of decentralized digital assets in 2013–2014. You can see the article here. We generally characterize this motivation of investor interest spurring the efforts of builders as “When a Sound Infrastructure Build-out Happens”.In previous articles, we at Sightlines Crypto have circled around different reasons how and why institutional investors will affect cryptoassets.These observations often characterize a common chicken and egg dilemma- investors are hesitant to use cryptoassets without sound infrastructure in place, and, at the same time, tech solutions will struggle to create a widely accepted infrastructure without real commitments from investors. However, we don’t lend too much credence as to there being an either/or dilemma. Instead, builders and investors mutually feed off the other such that when there is more money being circulated, better structure is required. As a better structure gets built, investors will entrust more money into the system.The reality is that investors and infrastructure providers will concurrently work at their own pace. In the current environment, we can approximate an infrastructure for institutional investors coming to fruition in the next 2–5 years. It could be depicted as creating the Venn Diagram below. Retail investors that have anticipated institutional acceptance will start to be rewarded. Capital market incumbents will begin to have their market-making powers usurped, and be faced with rethinking their business models.This rough sketch, however, is just the start. In this framework, Smart Money arriving without the Sound Infrastructure build out happening would be akin to a speculative bubble. Likewise, a framework with a Sound Infrastructure build-out and without Smart Money arriving would be akin to developers just spinning their wheels. We’d like to focus on the shared portion of the circle when cryptoassets will be legitimized on a larger scale.Cryptoassets as a legitimate investing vehicle begins to capture the true power that this technology will have on the financial system, but it will only be scratching the surface. In the short-term, we will have cryptoasset custodians and ICOs replacing IPOs. These technical developments and their adoption are upgrades to current financial system, but there will be a lot more. The current system will have to confront paradigm-defining new concepts such asbeing decentralized,having trustless arrangements,newly defined utility tokens representing economic activitiesThese will be some of the terms of new economies built on the blockchain. In this long-term environment, we can approximate this process coming to fruition in the next 20–50 years. It could be depicted as creating the Venn Diagram below.This rough sketch starts to look at a different financial reality. In this framework, Smart Money fueling crypto without a trustless Sound Infrastructure would be akin to a just as fragile a financial system as the global economy was in 2008. Likewise, a framework with a trustless Sound Infrastructure and without Smart Money fueling crypto would be akin to a hugely missed opportunity for the global citizens. We’d like to look forward to the shared portion of the circle when cryptoassets change the world.The difference between these two Venn Diagrams is that the former represents a proof of concept that Smart Money is witnessing develop in real time. It rewards early adopters, but is fraught with risk. It will necessitate expertise to help navigate these investments.The latter Venn Diagram represents a very different world view when compared to the current financial system. It will take more time as blockchains will have threat vectors attacked in unforeseen ways, global custodians designing new ways to protect assets, new exchanges that will operate on and off chain, etc. This new infrastructure will be just as proven as today’s financial system, and may surpass it at that point. This worldview will reward those investors who will have developed experience with this asset class.Developing expertise in this space, we have met some of the builders of a Sound Infrastructure for cryptoassets from the 1st Venn Diagram. We have also met those who are starting to design a Sound Infrastructure that will take cryptoassets from the 2nd Venn Diagram to levels in that can only be speculated about. Contextualizing the roadmap is key for institutional investors to understand what their allocations are getting them.