
CRYPTOADS GREAT PROJECT REVIEWWHAT IS CRYPTOADSBefore I review I will explain a bit about CRYPTOADS, if you notice you will have 2 word when you say, crypto and ads, so what is crypto techniques for secure communication in the presence of third parties or we can say it encryption, what is ads is an audio or visual form of marketing communication that employs an openly sponsored, non-personal message to promote or sell a product, service or idea.CFC Company (CallsFreeCalls) developed a cloud based software system for internal use and B2C sector they call CryptoAds and CryptoAds model launched in 2011, CFC innovative free VoiP messenger, U.S. based 6-y-old B2C startup with multimillion and high-quality audience. Profitable company with own traffic sources, iOS, Android and OS X apps. CryptoAds is a distributed marketing and advertising platform built on Ethereum Blockchain. This platform is completely transparent and provides secure solutions for brands, digital advertisers, marketers, content publishers, and daily Internet users who can trade directly without the need. Focused advertising. CryptoAds allows advertisers to place different ad units. This project will provide the basis for a development platform around the world.WHY CRYPTOADS NEED BLOCKCHAINThe blockchain allows us to create a more secure platform that beneficial for both advertisers and publishers “A good reputation is more valuable than money”. Blockchain will guarantee that information will remain unchanged including reputation history, no third party is involved, as all transactions must be made publicly and transparently, thus various services can be provided.HOW CRYPTOADS MARKETPLACE WORKSParticipation and interaction with other users in our platform will require usage of our Ethereum-based ERC20 CRAD tokens.Advertisers create ad content and media resources to be offered to their target audiences.In exchange for ad space, the Advertisers will use CRAD tokens as a means of payment to Publishers. The Advertisers can specify where and how their ads should be delivered, and how much they are willing to pay.Publishers agree to display the content produced by the Advertisers on their websites in exchange for CRAD tokens. The Publishers can specify criteria for advertisements that they are willing to display, including rates per click and per impression, ad type and genre, price range, duration of display time, etc.Users get action-based rewards in CRAD tokens for consuming advertising content, sharing their opinion about products and brands and participating in suggested gamified activities.The platform provides bandwidth and compute capacity to verify the legitimacy of clicks and impressions in exchange for a percentage of the CRAD tokens. Collectively, the Platform serves as a decentralized referee of the transactions between Advertisers and Publishers.WHAT IS TOKEN USE FORCryptoAds is a blockchain token that powers the CryptoAds Marketplace. It is designed for superior performance and focused on micropayments, used by users to watch videos, by producers to monetize their work and incentivize the network, and by advertisers to pay for a moment of users’ attention. Then advertisers need to buy CRAD tokens, creating a complete, closed and organic token economy on the platform. The token will be used for: advertisers (to pay for advertisement), publishers (to receive consideration from advertisers and reward users), for users to receive rewards for advertisement, inside CFC to replace existing means of payment.HOW TO PARTICIPATEPrevious sales will start from May 15th to June 15th, 2018. Sales will start June 16 through July 16, 2018.We do not have soft cover, up to 20,000,000 tokens. For the maximum amount sold before the 20 million CRADtokens there is no maximum input limit, minimum cap of $ 100 as a support payment we accept Bitcoin, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin. We do not accept payments from residents and residents of the United States, China, or South Korea. And all payments are available through a cumulative browser and a mobile application and a stock storage system. The safety of accepting coins for payment and storing funds: anypaycoins, coinpayments, we will convert after the original rate, $ 1 = 1 CRAD SHOP at the appropriate discount rate.The remaining tags will be allocated for network development and encourage publishers and users to purchase the service. 192 bitpo sub cards will be issued to ICOBox card holders for rewards for the provision of marketing consulting services and bookstores.MARKET AND INDUSTRYGlobal digital advertisement spending will take 44 percent, or $269.85 billion, of all ad money spent globally in 2018, with that figure reaching 50 percent, or $335.48 billion. Video is the number one fastest growing ads format in the world and has been doubling YoY. Three quarters of all mobile traffic will be used for video in 2023, according to a new report by telecommunications equipment company Ericsson. Worldwide mobile data traffic will increase to 110 exabytes per month in 2023, according to Ericsson, or the equivalent of 5.5 million years of streaming HD video. It’s eight times the 14 exabytes per month we used in 2017.TEAMOLEKSII VINOGRADOVFounder, CEOSerial entrepreneur and investor with twenty-five years of experience. Founder of CFC, Heartln Inc. President/Owner of IXC SoftswitchVALERIIA ZARANIANTSCo-FounderCEO of IXC Global IncANDRIY MYKHAILYSHYNCTOMaking innovations & driving company to success.Full Stack Developer / Architect (C/C++, Objective-C, Swift, Java, JavaScript) at CFC, SoftServe, Sigma Software GroupDENNIS GUBSKYAndroid developerHas more than 20 years of various fields of software development. Currently enjoing Android development making various projects for phones and tablets.EVGENIA YANITSKAYACSOHead of technical Support at IXC Global IncIGOR RYABENKIYInvestorManaging Partner at Altair Capital ManagementKOSTIANTYN BRAVOAdvisor21-year experience of entrepreneurial activity in real estate, securities, investment, business developmentALTAIR CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFundThe venture capital firm that invests in tech companies, primarily in the areas of Internet and MobileDMITRY KUPLEVATSKYAdvisorInternet entrepreneur with vast experience founding and developing innovative projects and automating and scaling up digital marketing processes. Founder of GrandMobi Ltd (mobile advertising company), Co-Founder of CFC and Binary Media LTD (affiliate network).PartnersTata Communications — owns and operates the world’s largest fibre optic cable network, covering 240,000 kilometres, including the first and only fibre optic ring around the world.Fyber​ — a leading mobile advertising technology company and others.You can subscribe the project by following :WEBSITE: http://tokensale.cfc.io/ANN THREAD : https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3262693.0WHITEPAPER: https://ico.cfc.io/WP_cfc_1EN.pdfFACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/CallsFreeCallsTWITTER: https://twitter.com/CallsFreeCallsBitcointalk username : KrendomBitcointalk Link :https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1927293