
Cryptocurrency vs Government dollarsThe debate of bitcoin and other cryptocurrency having not real value is outdated and irrelevant. Do you really think a US dollar has real value or is it your belief in the US that gives it value?Let’s take a quick look; in 1971 the US government fully removed the backing of gold from the dollar and before 1933 you could redeem your dollar for gold and before 1968 for sliver at any Federal Reserve Bank, now that’s just not an option.In fact, the dollars you carry in your wallet today are just IOU’s (a debt notes from the government) and has no intrinsic value at all. What the treasury says today is that the dollar is backed by the GDP of the US economy and the good faith and credit of the US government. OK so what does that really mean?“of the people, by the people, for the people” Abraham LincolnThe backing of the dollar is the people of the US, its consumer spending, business spending, exports less imports, and government spending. In short it’s the economy that the dollar is used for and what we produce and purchase with it.The danger is, if the government falters or is mismanaged the dollar can become worthless and there is no taking it to the Federal Reserve Bank and exchange it for gold or silver or anything else as there is no backing to the dollar just the promises of the government, and we all know we can trust the promises our government makes, right?I say rubbish, to those that say crypto has no real value, thank again and look at how value is instilled into anything. Value is perception. Worth or value is decreed by the people and backed by the people and if the people demonstrate there is value, then it has value. The day the US people lose faith in the dollar its value becomes $0 and will be no longer be usable for trade. This has already happened to many mismanaged governments around the world. Do you really think this cannot happen to you?In 1934 the US decided to devalue the dollar by 41%. Prior to 1934 you can redeem your dollar for one ounce of gold for just $20.67 after 1934 it cost $35. Today the dollar is not redeemable at all.So where does cryptocurrency value come from? The same place the US dollars value comes from the people and the economy that is created around it of course. As cryptocurrency grows the underline value is the economy that is created by it. We are starting to see crypto used for everything from housing, loans, products, and services, as this economy grows so will the underlying value and stability of cryptocurrency.Cryptocurrency is created of the worlds people, by the worlds people, for the worlds people. (you can quote me on that)As such the value is fully supported by the trust, faith, and belief of a world economy that use cryptocurrency and not in the trust of any one government. This creates real value, more so than any government currency can ever create.As more and more industrial, data and economic uses for crypto come to life the stronger and more stable the elements of tokens and currency will become regardless of any one governments support or lack thereof.Coming from the rewards and loyalty industry it’s all about the consumer retention and creating value. I see programs like we are promoting with www.rewardstoken.io as essential drivers in the crypto economy as we fully enhance the consumer experience by putting real value into the currency driven by customer. This creates an underlying micro economy that gives the currency true trackable value.Now let’s all stop the debate with crypto not having value, because it does it may not be that 20 trillion dollar economy of the US yet and may never will be but it has value and is supported by the people and the economy created around it.