
DIW OFFERS A PLATFORM FOR SAFE AND SECURE DATA OR INFORMATION EXCHANGES AND TRANSACTIONAccording to Sir Tim Berners-Lee (Inventor of the World Wide Web) “The web was designed to be decentralized so that everybody could participate by having their own domain and having their own webserver and this hasn’t worked out. Instead, we’ve got the situation where individual personal data has been locked up in these silos. Even though decentralisation of the web did not work out as planned, Blockchain Technology is the back-up plan. In almost a decade, the world has experienced a revolutionary Blockchain technology. As the name implies, a blockchain is a chain of blocks; bundles of data that record all completed transactions. Blockchain technology was launched back in 2009 with Bitcoin. Block chain technology offers a decentralized system that is not owned by any singular unit in particular but its monitored and maintained by the whole network. This has become obvious such that, utilization of blockchain technology by Bitcoin, removes the need for an intermediary, allowing the exchange of currency directly between two parties, unlike the other moderators of electronic currencies. Now, instead of using a centralised account to process payments with the danger of that single point of failure, anyone may have access to the decentralized bitcoin blockchain directly. One project specially designed to perpetuate the incredible performance of Blockchain technology is DIW.Digital Identification Wallet (DIW) project, is a revolutionary decentralized identification infrastructure which enables registered account holders, individuals or organisations, to securely create their online identification profile, that provides the capability to store, access and exchange, sensitive encrypted data. The power of blockchain and smart contracts makes the project possible to selectively reveal identification data of a DIW holder to other DIW holders. DIW will also develop and supply its own Hardware Wallet which will ensure maximum security to demanding premium members. This, in conjunction with the security offered by blockchain technology provides unprecedented levels of protection and peace of mind; what we call ‘Decentralized Security’! DIW and blockchain operates in analogy in areas including information and data security. The DIW Token, an ERC-20, Ethereum based utility token, will be introduced to be the preferred method of payment within the entire DIW network. Holders will be able to utilise the token for all of their daily activities and transactions as well as whilst exchanging services and products.WHY INFORMATION AND DATA SECURITY REQUIRES ATTENTIONEvery day, we create and store 2.5 quintillion bytes of data. In the last two years alone, we have created 90 percent of the world’s data! The amount of data created on digital information platforms daily is eight times greater than the information stored in all of the libraries in the U.S! People create and access data via different digital personal devices daily, with data and information being stored in various databases and clouds, in services such as the social media, music platforms, banking, shopping and much more. According to an online survey, with more than 2,000 english-speaking adults participating, the average person has 27 discrete online logins. As we store more and more data in various locations we rely on a growing number of passwords to access our information. It is possible to store these passwords along with other sensitive information with various online organizations; however, this raises the concern of security breach if an individual stores all private information in one place.PROBLEMFrom the introduction of the electronic system; organisations, businesses and individuals and the likes are continuously faced with problems of how to safely and securely store, transfer or share data or information, and transact or deal with others online. One major contributing factor to data breaches is the best existence of centralized systems which offer information storing services to Organisations and individuals. But these centralized systems are vulnerable to hacks and corruption. Also online frauds are on an immense rise since one can hardly ascertain the reliability and credibility of others transacting with online. Additionally, the total market cap of all Crypto Currencies has seen a significant increase. However, crypto currency is solely used within the crypto community and online exchanges — not in ‘real life’ hence, its usage is limited.THE SOLUTION AS DESIGNED DIWDIW plans to bridge and solve all aforementioned issues with the introduction of its global, blockchain- based, decentralized network, complete with its own ecosystem and currency. DIW holders will be able to access the network anonymously, gaining access to a Secure Vault, where they will be able to securely store their entire ‘Virtual Life’ including sensitive documents such as passports, contracts, electronic health records and login details.Organizations and individuals around the globe will be able to take part and exchange their services in the form of a Global Directory. Access to the network is only provided to valid holders, having confirmed their accounts by filling KYC / KYS documentation. Transactions will be completed in full transparency and all network members will be able to see each other’s real life performance in the form of a rating score. The DIW Token will be used and accepted throughout the network for transactions between its members, enabling higher security. Additional services such as encrypted storage solutions, digital contract-based escrow services as well as a hardware wallet for enhanced security will also be offered to its premium members. To top it all, DIW plans to introduce its own Payment Gateway that will be easily integrated within e-commerce websites accepting both fiat and Crypto currencies enabling the utilisation of crypto-currencies in everyday life, with the DIW Token being the most ideal form of payment.The above functions sit at the core of the DIW project. Building on these, the possibilities are endless. As security becomes an increasing priority, DIW will be a personal safe haven — one that will allow the secure storage, access and sharing of information, enable secure online purchases as well as help its members locate, come into contact and work with true professionals. At any given time, its members will be able to only provide information they are comfortable to share with others. All of these will be made possible within a fully transparent network, featuring its own ecosystem.BENEFITS OF THE DIW DECENTRALIZED COMMUNITY:• Efficient, swift and cost-effective transaction processes• Complete freedom to transact via any form of currency, digital or at• Single access to an endless doorway• Access to support provided by a large, global community• Secure peer-to-peer protocol for the distribution of sensitive data• Ultimate security to the account holder via the utilization of a hardware walletVISION OF DIWDIW after ensuring the functionality of all features aforementioned will seek to further implement an ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD (EHR) SYSTEM, which is embedded in its vision. This EHR system will function to save, track, transfer, and provide access to encrypted personal Electronic Health Records (EHR), utilizing the secure, decentralized blockchain network. EHR will only be accessible by the patient via the DIW platform. The patient (DIW Account Holder) will be able to fully control who sees their EHR and which parts of it. This includes providing EHR access to hospitals, laboratories, pharmacists, doctors or other healthcare professionals. In emergency situations, medical personnel will be able to access medical EHR that the patient had previously predefined and made available for such occasions. Such access will be granted to approved registered medical organizations, health-care professionals and assigned family members or close friends that are DIW holders. This will prove to be life-saving for many individuals as it will safeguard that the patient will be treaded correctly and swiftly based on immediately available as well as accurate EHR.DIW TOKEN AND CROWDSALEThe DIW ecosystem consists of 1 000 000 000 (one billion) tokens. We propose that a single token be referred to as a “DIW” and be represented by the rhombus symbol “◊”. The value of the majority of the tokens distributed from ICOs is mainly affected by the natural fluctuation within the crypto exchange platforms and their existence closely linked to their popularity there. Out of the one billion pre-mined tokens issued, 700 000 000 (70% of the DIW tokens) will be made available during crowdsale. All unsold tokens will be burned at the end of crowdsale.READ MORE TO FURTHER APPRECIATE DIW; Check out the following linksWebsite: https://diwtoken.com/Whitepaper: https://docsend.com/view/qr8a4u7Forum : https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2567416Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/diwtoken/Twitter: https://twitter.com/diwtokenTelegram: https://t.wme/ditokenInstagram: https://www.instagram.com/diwtoken/AUTHORSHIPmedium username: jeffreyafrifa9Bitcointalk username: stormyblueForum Profile URL: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1882444