
Letter of clarification from DeedcoinPublic Statement Regarding Compliance Clarification in Recent ReleasesDeedcoin Community,The email and release regarding “Letter from a Founder” distributed yesterday was given to a content editor who added the closing paragraph:“After this update, only approximately 30 Million Deedcoin will be in existence- ever. The Deedcoin you hold will now make up a larger portion of the total solution. This is the least we can do for you as a community for helping us accomplish so much in just short of our first year of Deedcoin.”The first sentence was intended to clarify that the Deedcoin currently issued are simply closer to the end of the token sale process. This was in NO WAY intended as a value statement. The appreciation expressed was based on the community’s eagerness to move past the token sales process and see 100% of the team’s labor redistributed towards platform improvement. The Deedcoin project currently has gone farther than expected on the budget and our company position has always been to not have more funding than needed. We simply do not need the additional funding to accomplish the company goals and therefore are selling less token. Each Deedcoin still serves the same function of utility at 10 to 1% of subject properties and this is the basis of Deedcoin. The amount of 100 Million Deedcoin or 30 Million Deedcoin does not change the function of each Deedcoin and therefore does not affect utility. The purpose of each Deedcoin is based upon the individual utility of the coin for each property transactor. We are not changing anything substantial about Deedcoin, just the company token sales goal for budget purposes. Deedcoin prioritizes compliance.We wanted to clarify the intent of this statement and have since removed it due to the possibility of misconstruing our intent. Disciplinary and educational actions have been taken with our content editing team regarding the production of this ambiguous paragraph. Releases will now go through compliance review as the last step before publishing to avoid future issues.Deedcoin is for use on transactions and is proven as a real world solution. The platform was built at the expense of the founders and was functioning nationally before token sales began. Deedcoin is a product and not a speculative investment. The sales of our token are that of a digital good produced by a functioning business. We simply do not need to sell more than $28 Million worth of goods to augment the business to the point of optimal enhancement and have therefore capped our total token sales. The token volume produced from this allows an adequate quantity due to the divisibility of Deedcoin, to supply a growing customer pool. Future revenue models for the business are not based on token sales and Deedcoin plans to self sustain with other revenue streams. The Deedcoin platform is not based in speculation of launch. It has launched and did so before selling product. The limit set of 1,500 token per U.S. citizen is designed to prevent a violation of regulation for U.S. Citizens who are participating for speculative investment reasons.Using Deedcoin is more cost effective than using a conventional agent. The platform revenue models after the token sale are designed to run the platform. The capped quantity has the benefit of allowing the free market to set the price of the solution. We cannot make any claims as to that price because we are not the free market. A more traditional business model does not limit the sale of digital goods because traditional models are not designed to allow public input of industry pricing.Real estate rates need free market input and are currently controlled by the industry leaders. The blockchain model allows that price to be determined by the consumers which is the very basis of how the industry should work already. Blockchain is disruptive technology and that is exactly why we built Deedcoin with blockchain.Once again I must say that the “Knights of Deed” are not employees of Deedcoin. They receive the telegram status due to their support of Deedcoin and participation in the community. We do communicate compliance information to the Knights, however they cannot speak for Deedcoin directly and they hold individual opinions as leading community members. If a question needs to be answered, we implore you to reach out to one of the core team through telegram, or simply send an email to team@deedcoinlaunch.com. Once again, the “Knights of Deed” cannot speak for Deedcoin and the information received from a Knight is from a member of the community and not the company itself.Please watch our mailing list and Medium for the key updates to what we are doing and remember that we cannot speak for the world, only ourselves. Actions are more powerful than words. Deedcoin helps property owners, buyers and agents, with no need to sell more tokens than appropriate. The actions and intent of Deedcoin have always been transparent and will continue to be as we enhance the platform.The Deedcoin team believes that regulation is the path forward for the industry. Blockchain token launches should be done in a manner similar to the sale of digital goods for existing companies to improve industry technology. Platforms should be functional before tokens are issued to prevent speculative launches and the dangers that come with these platform types. We recommend the public read through our Medium releases for the official company position on the future of this technology and Deedcoin.Sincerely,-The Deedcoin Team