
LinX — To Make Haste Slowly“Attitude is the difference between an ordeal and an adventure” — Bob BitchinAnd so it began, a birth of yet another crypto project in what can be described as a congested maternity ward where every parent dreams their spawn will change the world for the better. But we know that a significant portion of these “newborns” will not always make it past infancy and even the majority of ones that do, end up dissapointing their parents.It was on May 30th 2017 that Linx was born with the same intention, namely to revolutionize the world of Electronic Dance Music through blockchain technology using the Scrypt algorithm. As childbirth can be difficult, it was born with a premine of 1,000,000 LinX, a Caesarean of sorts. With a total supply of 100,000,000 LinX, it definately had a long maturity ahead, espicially considering an initial block reward of 50 Linx with halving at block 500,000.Unlike most other coins, LinX was born with a certain advantage, namely its creator is an internationally renowned figure in the EDM scene. So renowned in fact, that the parents were adament about keeping their identity hidden from the world. One can ponder exactly why this might be (NDA? Fear of failure? Fear of bad publicity? Hell, your guess is as good as mine).Fast forward to today, May 2nd 2018, Linx will soon be celebrating its 1 year birthday and has actually come a long way. I guess an “upward fall” sounds about right in terms of the current situation:We know the partner they are in discussions with→ TraxsourceWe know there is a delay with the partner for LinxPay integrationDelay is open ended, so no current implementation dateWe still do not know the identity of the devsLinxPay is apparently ready to go and finishedLinx Platform is being redesigned, and is apparently close to completionNew Exchange/Exchanges have been applied forClearly the identity reveal of the partner is a positive note, firstly, it shows the quality of the business links the developers have as well as proof of their work behind the scenes. Traxsource is not exactly a small company and would not have even considered Linx should the technology not have been interesting and functional.Now for the “fall” portion of the “upward fall”:The open ended delay is of concern, as it is more a question of wether the project been shelved indefinately and trexsource is simply postponing the inevitable, like driving a turd on sandpaper. Or is it simply a small bump on the road? The lack of a specific date (hell, even 2020) does indeed provide a bit of insecurity in terms of the future with Traxsource.What do I think?I like the project and the ideaThe devs have proved they have made progress in development after 1 year, espicially considering there was no ICOI am not happy that the identity is still hiddenIt is unfortunate that things did not go as planned with Traxsource, but hell, business is business and point is the devs proved the reach of their connectionsI am not happy at the lack of communicationShould you invest/continue to invest?Hell if I know, but one thing is certain, market cap is low (currently 2.4 million USD) and putting a small bag away could give you some nice returns should the partnership/future partnerships be fully implemented.A simple comparison to other projects that are valued at 10 times the current LinX marketcap but have nothing more to offer than what can best be described as a used tampon is a clear sign that this project has more of an upside than a downsideI wouldnt reccomend anyone to invest more than they can loose for any project. All in all it depends on your attitude, you either take this as an interesting adventure or a difficult ordeal.Good Luck.