
IBM’s Foray into the Cryptosphere: DAN, HADE, and BOONBackground significance, proven catalyst:IBM’s partnership and work with Stellar Lumens (XLM) is extremely bullish and is part of a strong catalyst that drives XLM price. Its not a quiet partnership, articles are written regularly enough to keep excitement at a high.Jesse Lund, IBM’s head of Blockchain Development:“IBM’s partnership with Stellar is strong and growing to become an even more integral part of the IBM Blockchain Platform strategy as we begin to expand support from private-permissioned blockchain networks to public-pemissioned networks, enabling use cases from growing client demand for such.”IBM is actively using XLM as we speak, and has no plans to create their own blockchain to replace it. XLM would be the coin used in these processes.Why it matters:I recently discovered three IDEX gems, all of which share striking similarities: IBM advisors and team members, Boon.Tech utilizes IBM’s Watson, as does Daneel (DAN), and all were, until recently, heavily under ICO price with DAN taking off just a day ago (DAN +1000%).Hade — 227% below ICO price — 1,817,113.63636 Marketcap ICO — 4.135.5M raised/30MBoon — 492% below ICO price — 1,015,037.59398 Marketcap ICO — 5M raised/10MDaneel — 940% below ICO price — 301,021.377409 Marketcap (now 17.24% above ICO price)Why I’m bullish:Daneel was a steal 940% below ICO, and a quick rise back up as the marketcap was only 300k. I expect these two other coins to quickly follow suite. IBM is putting more resources into crypto, and it just so happens a bear market REKT three coins supported by an industry giant.Quick summary, what do they do?Daneel — Uses IBM’s Watson to power a futuristic smart assistant which helps manage your crypto portfolio and analyze market sentiment. They have a beta version out, you can sign up to help test it.“Daneel is a registered member of IBM Partnerworld : this commercial partnership forms an important part of our accelerated development strategy and gives us, through long-term and sustained relationships, a real competitive advantage for our intelligent assistant.”Boon — Boon.tech is a decentralized job marketplace. It stands out from the many other dex job platforms in many ways, a few of which listed below:“Boon Tech will be the first AI powered decentralized job marketplace with an intelligent review system incorporated into the platform. By integrating with IBM Watson’s Personality Insights we can predict personality characteristics, needs and values, and better understand our customers’ habits and preferences on an individual level, and at scale”Boon.tech completed its Android and IOS app in October of 2017, they can be downloaded and used with 100% functionality right now. Boon.tech will accept fiat for its marketplace starting in Q3, 2018.Hade — Investment research utilizing blockchain technology with machine learning, data visualization, data analysis, and artificial intelligence. Burned 75 million tokens on 4/27/18. Lets remove some of that jargon and break it down what it means: Hade provides otherwise expensive investment services for free by removing the financial burdens other firms face. This is done with blockchain tech. Some tokens serve no clear purpose, Hade has four: HADE Platform, Matrix, HadePay, and Verifie. The homepage of the website does a fantastic job scratching the surface.I’ll be releasing a more in depth review of each coin, along with interviews of team members and advisors at a later date.Thought process:Every trading group I have ever been a part of never discussed trading psychology. Every newsletter just wrote a shill and left you to “make your own decision”. The problem is, some people fell for the wrong shills. Below is my thought process on the decision to valuate these coins at a price at an immediate minimum of 6–7x. Agree/disagree with the decision making process, not just the shill.When investing the first question you should ask yourself is what do I think the current price should be, and what is the current price. Valuation of a coin is difficult, however in this situation it is quite easy.All of these ICO’s raised far below the hardcap. You could draw a conclusion this is a negative, nobody was interested. Keep in mind we were in a strong bear market.All are trading well below ICO price. All are completely bottomed out from a TA viewpoint. All have real teams, real products, real problems to solve. All have access to high quality advisors.By not being listed on Coinmarketcap they have zero exposure. In the same way a coin pumps when its added to an exchange, a coin pumps when its added to CMC.Using this same logic I was able to predict DAN’s rise.This is all a very brief summary, and I have a lot more information to come on these coins. As I mentioned on Twitter, I spoke to an advisor on the phone and am working on an interview.Please make your own investment decisions. I am not a financial advisor.