
The Complexity of Filing Cryptocurrency TaxesIf you are living in the United States, your taxes are due today. Filing taxes for average people is a daunting task and usually, most seek professional help from accountants or online services such as Turbo Tax or Credit Karma that make the process of tax filing a bit easier to handle than filing on your own.When most people make investments in the stock market, the process of filing your capital gains or losses is simple. You purchase a stock with USD and when you are ready to sell you sell that stock asset back into USD. If you made a capital gain on the income earned from owning a particular stock you are required to pay taxes on it depending on your tax bracket and the period of time in which you held the asset.With cryptocurrency, filing your taxes is a bit different and can be difficult for even advanced investors to wrap their heads around when it comes to filing capital gains on your taxes. This is mainly due in part to the government not having a firm decision on how cryptocurrency should be taxed. This leaves many investors confused on how to report their tax paperwork.Cryptocurrency blew up in value during 2017. It wouldn’t be such a shock if you know someone who got involved in January 2017 that ended up in the 1% tax bracket by December 2017. Although as of today, only a small fraction of investors have reported those capital gains on their 2017 tax filings. This begs the question of why investors are avoiding taxes. Is it because filing taxes on cryptocurrency is too difficult? Is it because the investors believe they are untouchable and that their trade records will never trace back to them? Or is it that many of the people who became rich on paper, forgot to cash out and kept HODLing on to their digital cash-equivalent assets when the market came tumbling down?US Cryptocurrency Investors Are Not Reporting Their TaxesRecently, Credit Karma, a popular choice for online tax-filing services, announced that out of the 250,000+ people who reported their 2017 taxes on their platform, less than 100 people disclosed capital gains on cryptocurrency investments. This kind of behavior from cryptocurrency investors is nothing new, in fact ever since the Internal Revenue Service implemented a cryptocurrency tax law in 2014, the majority of investors have still not paid. This is because many investors believe that the government still doesn’t have up-to-date tax codes for cryptocurrencies and they are not considered legal tender in any U.S. jurisdiction. Currently, the IRS identifies cryptocurrency as property and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission classify cryptocurrency as a security. So which is it, Uncle Sam?This confusion makes filing a bit difficult as some investors believe trading one asset for another asset bears no capital gains tax and taxes should only be reported when the cryptocurrency is sold back for fiat currency. The IRS disagrees and requires investors to pay a tax every step of the way when trading. Requirements such as these are not subject to tax penalties across numerous European nations.The Solution for Crypto Tax FilingSo what’s a solution for this current issue for U.S. cryptocurrency investors? Changing legislation is a slow, time-consuming process. Getting tax reform ready for the rapidly changing financial ecosystem will take time to adjust accordingly. So how can we fix the problems we face today by tomorrow?Implement USD pairing on established exchanges.For many of us, when we first got started trading cryptocurrency we signed up using Coinbase. Coinbase is one of the few United States-based cryptocurrency exchanges that allows investors to exchange USD for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin and Bitcoin Cash. However, most investors know enough to understand that in order to invest in other cryptocurrencies besides what Coinbase offers, you have to transfer those assets out of Coinbase to other trading platforms such as Binance. Binance happens to offer over one hundred different cryptocurrencies, whereas with Coinbase, investors are limited to the current four. The problem investors face with Binance is that they do not offer USD pairing for trading.This is where investors get into trouble with their taxes…If an investor chooses to invest in a cryptocurrency that isn’t offered on Coinbase they will be automatically subjected to multiple capital gain tax hits.The current trading process works like this:Sign up on Coinbase and purchase Bitcoin with USDSend that Bitcoin to Binance’s exchange to trade for other cryptocurrencies not currently available on CoinbasePay capital gains tax when you purchase that cryptocurrency with BitcoinPay capital gains tax again when you purchase Bitcoin again to send back to Coinbase so you can exchange for USDPay capital gains tax when you sell your Bitcoin back into USD.ProfitThat’s at least 3 times an investor is required to file and report capital gains or losses on an asset just to complete a simple trade. This makes reporting everything a complete mess when filing and an extremely difficult process if you are inexperienced with spreadsheet software. The best service around currently that can help you with this is Bitcoin.TaxTo change all this we need to approach exchanges and have them add USD pairing options for traders so the process of trading cryptocurrencies can be simplified to the point where anyone can do it without the stress of filing a complicated capital gains report. Binance.com may be the first candidate to do so. Binance became the biggest cryptocurrency exchange in trade volume in less than one year. This is because Binance offers great customer service, offers the majority of the coins or tokens an investor is interested in buying and they have a simple user interface to track investments.With the recent move to Malta, Binance is in the perfect position to start accepting USD payments from their customers. If that happens, this will be game-changing for cryptocurrency investing. Binance has already hinted at this possibility in previous reports the only thing not mentioned is when.If Binance or other popular exchanges added a USD pairing for the majority of cryptocurrencies out there, the new trading process would look similar to how it works on Wall Street.Sign up on Binance and purchase any cryptocurrency paired with USDSell that cryptocurrency back to USDPay capital gains on the sale of that cryptocurrencyProfitIt would dramatically change the entire struggle of trading cryptocurrency and would encourage experienced investors and new investors to get involved. This won’t solve all issues with cryptocurrency tax filing but could help establish an easier process for the average investor.Cryptocurrency is still only ten years old and still in the early stages of adoption. It will be a difficult process of getting crypto adopted by the masses if the governments of the world do not establish an understandable and reasonable tax reform for the digital assets.In the meantime, comply with your local tax laws and do not try to avoid paying your taxes on any capital gains you may have accumulated on cryptocurrency over the years. The IRS will not be friendly towards you.Happy Investing!What are your thoughts on Cryptocurrency tax filing? Let us know in a few words!If you want to see more content just like this, head over to our social media page for more daily content!Follow ShareCrypto