
FINALLY THERE’S HOPE FOR OUR WORLD TO BECOME BETTER.Did you know that almost half of the world (3 billion people), live on less than $2.50 a day and at least 80% of humanity lives on less than $10 a day? Statistical facts have proven that more than 80% of the world’s population lives in countries where income differentials are widening and the poorest 40% of the world’s population accounts for 5% of global income, the richest 20% accounts for three-quarters of world income. In 2005, the wealthiest 20% of the world accounted for 76.6% of total private consumption, the poorest fifth just 1.5%. The wealthiest nation on Earth has the widest gap between rich and poor of any industrialized nation. All these facts tell us that we really live in an unequal world, a world where the rich keeps getting richer and the poor poorer, it would also interest you to know that the 20% of the world’s people who live in the highest income countries consume 86% of the world’s resources and the bottom 20% in the lower income countries consume less than 10%. This again shows how unequal the scale of our world is.If things continue like this, then we should be ready to see worse results than these, this begs the following questions what must be done to tip the scales and ensure equality? How can the ugly statistical facts shown above be made better? And what is the hope of our world, our future if nothing is done to change this inequality? a great visionary man by name Scott Picken said “we have to empower the 99% of the world’s population and give them the same access to wealth as the top 1% if we want to co-create a sustainable and better planet for all. this is not a nice to have, this is a necessity”. I totally agree with Him; a solution must be provided soonest. For as long as humans have accumulated wealth, land and real estate have been the number one vehicle for growing and preserving wealth. 49% of the world’s wealth is held in real estate and the total market value is over USD 217 trillion, people from all over the world no matter the race or occupation understand the intrinsic value of real estate whether they can have access to it or not, this leads me to introduce to you a unique blockchain oriented platform called the WEALTH MIGRATE platform which seeks to provide the catalyst that will ultimately solve once and for all the wealth gap by removing all the barriers, friction costs and other limitations which exists with the current framework.This unique platform seeks to solve this wealth gap by using a systematic phase approach which includes 3 phases.Phase 1 involves developing and a proving a model for utilizing real estate and selling the units through global network, which has been proven an accomplished in blockchain.Phase 2 the offering of digital token that both expands the wealth migrate business and influence and significantly reduces the cost of entry into the real estate market which will be done via blockchain thereby providing access to real estate for a larger number of people entry and provide incentive to partake in growing the ecosystem.Phase 3 entails the extension of wealth migrate offerings and technology across multiple regions, platform, levels of real estate, and units of purchase, which will give one billion people access to the benefits of real estate ownership as well as opening up new and emerging market.Let’s make efforts to change our world and it starts with you and I making a decision to do this and I see nothing stopping us because if it is thinkable then it is doable, be a part wealth migrate today.Bountyhive username is Daveshem