
Worldopoly: gaminfication of reality via AR, Blockchain and DAGA bit of history…We have certain traditions as in any other software company. One of the main things is game battles every Friday after work to have some rest and talk in an informal environment. This is the time when our game room with two Playstation boxes becomes the center of office, where the heat of passion is higher than on the skram before any deadline. We play football and organizing racing tournaments, or discuss the games we play and what successes we reached. Once we discussed blockchain technology (which at that time was associated only with Bitcoin crypto currency), and formulated an interest for technology’s specifics and its wider field of use. At that time, the concept of “Worldopoly” just formed and we tried to understand prospects for Blockchain in mobile gaming world.For understanding, “Worldopoly” is a real-time multiplayer strategy game, which is a simulator of urban construction with built-in blockchain and augmented reality technologies.We tried to find any examples of blockchain-based games that were popular those days but could not find anything worth attending or there were something very “raw”. oday, the situation has not changed much, despite the fact that the blockchain entered almost all areas of our everyday lives. The current game market is quite monopolized and the integration of Blockchain / DAG technologies depends on the decision of large corporations. So we have only casual games where player can collect and exchange items. So, after a long research and deep acquaintance, we were pleasantly surprised and identified for ourselves a number of advantages that later were integrated into our “Worldopoly”.Advantages of Blockchain-based gamesWe can list for a long time the advantages we found and what we integrated to Worldopoly, so let’s see the most significant things in our opinion.Ownership — players have real ownership for items and in-game currencies. As soon as something is bought, exchanged or sold, the record about transaction saves forever and it cannot be hacked. All your digital purchases will be really yours, and useful outside the game. Your game money can be stored on your wallet next to real money or other altcoins.Valuable items are truly valuable — item value heavily depends on its uniqueness in lots of games, for example, Diablo game series. Here the item’s value is backed up also by tokenization, and its exchange or sale for both players is a real deal. Here you can conclude great deal, or not so good one (for example, selling a really valuable item (building, street, etc.) for a cheap price and then watch as someone sells it in 10 times expensively.Unique items are truly unique — the uniqueness of anything both in real and virtual worlds today provides a triple price at the expense of the fact itself, and sometimes it is very difficult to ascertain the true uniqueness of the item. It is especially acute while buying — or exchanging the same item.Decentralized gaming economy — blockchain creates a direct connection between developers and players in games and any other developments. Players can monetize their progress, skills and accumulated property.Transparent exchange of items — this is all about safe transactions and confirmations when the ownership of item is going to be changed.A good example to the above is Entropia Universe, which is very relevant to Worldopoly. It’s a gaming world where one unknown gamer bought a game real estate for $2.5 mln.Solving the problems of the gaming industryEach industry has many problems that require solutions and improvements; it is enough to say about the most pressing problem in the gaming industry: the time spent and the loss of interest. Loss of interest in the game leads not only to the loss of money spent in the game, but also to the fact that the player loses time irrevocably, and the items he bought depreciates. In our game, as nowhere else, tokenization helps to monetize the time that player spent, the skills he owned and all the previously purchased items.In Worldopoly, as in many popular games, Grinding game mechanic is implemented. Grinding is a thing when the player performs a monotonous or routine work, it exists in almost every game and it is a part of the game process. In our opinion, Grinding is mining in the virtual world. And you also need “Proof of Work” to achieve the result. For example, while waiting for the building or any event.The value of virtual currency — in games without blockchain has a “pseudo value”, because it has practically no pricing factors and can be emitted an infinite number of times. If there’s blockchain or DAG, the game currency has value and depends on the pricing factors automatically.Summarizing all, an in-game blockchain implementation determines the value of time spent, because game results can be converted into real and valuable things. It’s also important that everyone can see info about others’ property and don’t care about security or transparency problems.Modern technologies’ implementation in gamesYou can talk a lot about “hyped technologies”, but if you want to get real benefits from it and create a very popular game, you need to find valuable usage for then in game process and make it a part of the business model. Worldopoly uses geolocation, AR (augmented reality), AI (Artificial intelligence and machine learning) and Blockchain technologies. In Worldopoly, a player can buy real streets in real cities (basic technology: Google Maps / openstreetmaps). Thanks to augmented reality, we create a game based on geolocation, where the game world is the same with the real maps, streets and buildings. We believe that players will re-perceive the real world experience and communicate with each other with the help of these technologies.Here is an example from Worldopoly. One of the features is a lot of classes of buildings. Each type of building has different characteristics and all of them can interact with each other in some way. All buildings are grouped into “classes”; we have the “Food & Drink” class, in which we have a standard bar, which is shown below. But also there’s an Irish pub or restaurant for example. Here you can see how AR-object is placed right on the building, and AI ​​/ ML technologies are responsible for its correct positioning. It allows us to recognize the contours of the building and position the object correctly.When there is a technologies like DAG that can be used in games and augmented reality, you can transfer the game dynamics into real life and make the competition from everything and everywhere. For example, our application “Worldopoly AirMiner”, which allows you to transfer boring bounty campaigns from the browser page to everyday life. Walk through the streets of your favorite city and collect coins, performing simple tasks.These technologies also allow to open new opportunities for advertisers. Below are a few examples of how selected technologies will help Worldopoly provide interesting opportunities within the existing advertising channels:AR events: advertisers can utilize the AR capabilities of Worldopoly in order to promote their business e.g. „Somewhere in Central Park there are 100 free hamburgers, use the AR-extension to find them and enjoy a free hamburger for each AR-hamburger found.“Offering in-game rewards for item purchases e.g. „Buy a hamburger and scan the code on your receipt and get N coins!“Providing players with the option of purchasing limited edition game items e.g. “Get a limited edition premium Ice-cream shop from the N-brand!”Combining AR and Geopositioning Worldopoly provides a unique gameplay experience that enhances mobile gaming from its current limitations. While other games focus on either AR or world building, crypto technologies or gameplay. Worldopoly purposefully integrates all technologies into one. Every implemented feature has its unique purpose. With AR you experience the game in real life and Geopositioning brings the cities of the world onto your device.Technical implementation and problemsGames, and especially popular and multi-user ones, are primarily a highly loaded system with a lot of microtransactions. Support for data consistency in non-blockchain-based games has been a proven mechanism for years. After the technology came to us, the situation has changed. Blockchain is a relatively young thing and there are a number of problems with network bandwidth, commissions and a limited number of transactions per second. The speed of the transaction within the economic game is so critical that we faced the challenge of moving from a decentralized to a semi-decentralized (hybrid) model with support for on-chain and off-chain transactions. Currently, we are considering several concepts to solve the problems described. Some of them are: the use of Plasma protocol, which Bankex already had time to test, along with our own solution.Those who are going to do blockchain-based games with a lot of microtransactions, it is worth paying attention to the DAG (directed acyclic graph). DAG is a young and unique direction that will definitely find its use in games, due to its reliability, scalability and low transaction costs.Ethereum has a solution to the problems described, and the community is actively working on it, but the date of their practical implementation is still unknown. Therefore, in search of scalability, game developers may choose DAG. Irreversible transactionsWe were often asked at conferences and meetups about how critical the irreversibility of transactions in games is. Blockchain and DAG work the same way in this case, ensuring the invariance and integrity of the transaction, so any transaction can’t be cancelled (and this fact certainly needs to be taken into account). In games, there are a number of transactions that, according to the game logic, can and should be reversible. WE don’t see the problem here and create a convenient interface and a system of notifications to confirm the user’s actions. Of course, not everyone is happy with this option, so we are also planning to introduce “deferred transactions”.