
5 Reasons Why We Love FresnoIf you’re intrigued by cryptocurrency, interested in a convenient way to get into crypto and purchase bitcoin, or are curious about our ATMs, come check our machines out. We have ATMs all over the country, and they are located in some pretty darn great cities (and we’re expanding to more in the coming months). One of these great cities is Fresno, California. For those of you who live in Fresno — or if you are planning on visiting soon — we have not one but TWO locations located in CellPros shops on Aslan and Olive. Both of these kiosks are situated in a part of the city that is close to a few of our other favorite places to visit. An afternoon filled with crypto, nature, and rare animals? Sign us up!1. Fresno Chaffee ZooPhoto: https://www.fresnochaffeezoo.org/experiences/african-adventure/You don’t need a reason to go to the zoo. If you want to go, just do it. The Fresno Chaffee Zoo is home to approximately 190 species, including the African Elephant, the Colobus Monkey, the California Sea Lion, sloth bears, and warthogs, among many others. The zoo is less than a 10-minute drive away from our ATM, so it’s almost a little too convenient.2. Old Fresno Water TowerPhoto Credit: https://abraxas-within.deviantart.com/art/Forestiere-Underground-Gardens-306570474If there’s a historic building in town, we’re the first ones in line. The Old Fresno Water Tower was built in the American Romanesque style and stands 109 feet high. If you’re a fan of historic buildings, add this one to your list. And in addition to sharing that you used a crypto ATM, here’s an additional interesting fact you can share at dinner parties: the Old Fresno Water Tower can hold up to 250,000 gallons of water in its tank. You’re welcome.3. Forestiere Underground GardensPhoto Credit: https://abraxas-within.deviantart.com/art/Forestiere-Underground-Gardens-306570474When a website’s About page begins with “Sometimes you have to go beneath the surface to find what you’re looking for,” you know it’s worth a visit. The Forestiere Underground Gardens is an open-air museum that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is California State Historical Landmark number 916. Built by Sicilian immigrant Baldassare Forestiere in the 1900s, he set out to create a citrus empire. It took Forestiere about 40 years to make the gardens, digging through sedimentary rock and reaching 40 feet below the surface of the earth. Are you intrigued yet?4. Fresno Art MuseumPhoto Credit: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fresno_Art_MuseumOnce you’ve purchased bitcoin at our ATM, go spend the rest of the afternoon strolling the hallways of the Fresno Art Museum. With a focus on modern and contemporary artworks — including painting, sculpture, prints, photographs, and other media — you’re bound to have a thought-provoking and meaningful experience.5. Shinzen Friendship GardenPhoto Credit: www.mercedcountyevents.comLocated a short drive outside of downtown Fresno, the Shinzen Friendship Garden is a convenient escape into nature. Why wouldn’t you want to spend some time exploring, learning, and reflection? And if there’s serenity and renewal included, yes, please! This is a quiet place to sit and think and enjoy the beauty of Mother Nature.