
Superbloom Newsletter — May 4, 2018Superbloom’s $1M AirdropWe’re airdropping 10,000,000 SEED with an estimated value of $1M. Goal is to grow our community and reward early adopters. The airdrop is going on all month long; distribution will be in June once verification is complete.Follow these simple steps to earn 1,000 Tokens:Follow SuperbloomHQ on Twitter and retweet the pinned post. Make sure to share your Twitter username in the form below so we can track completion.Join the conversation on Telegram t.me/Superbloom and ask our admins a question or share your top picks of altcoins to invest in — we’re tracking who posts for the airdrop distribution.Follow Superbloom on Medium and clap for a recent article or newsletter — we love to know what information you’re reading!Join Superbloom’s Facebook group: Intelligent ICO Investors and share the group on your personal Facebook wall.Once you’ve completed the above steps, enter your info on superbloom.com/bonus so we can track completion. Earn an additional 50 SEED for every friend you refer, up to 4,000 SEED ($400) for friend referrals.Only NON US CITIZENS are eligible for the airdrop. Must be 18 years of age.Crypto News RoundupCrypto never sleeps and neither do we! Here’s a roundup of what’s going on in the industry.Bitcoin is still struggling to break the five-digit barrier. While Ethereum is making moves, up another 8% again today at $775. The financial consultancy firm DeVere Group predicts that the second largest cryptocurrency will rise to $2,500 by the end of the year citing the decentralization of cloud computing and Ethereum’s popularity as a smart contract.In an interview with Fortune, Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian predicted Bitcoin will more than double by the end of the year, regaining it’s all-time high of $20,000. He also predicted Ethereum will 20x — hitting $15,000 by the end of 2018. Today he amended his statement, explaining he “meant to say $1,500.”Bitcoin Cash (BCH) took the biggest correction amongst all the top ten coins dropping from $1,550 to $1,270 within a day just about the time that news of a lawsuit filed against Bitcoin.com broke out for allegedly misleading crypto traders into buying BCH. Bitcoin supporters have been going head to head with Bitcoin Cash supporters since the fork that took place in August last year. This lawsuit promises to be a lengthy one with enough content for a daytime soap opera. If that sort of excitement is your cup of tea, you can head over here to join the fray. Editor’s Note: Bitcoin Cash has since rebounded and is at $1,470 at the time of publication.Do you consider yourself an investor for having bought into cryptocurrency? A prominent investor has something to say about that. In his latest interview with Yahoo Finance, Warren Buffett reiterates his point that cryptocurrency has absolutely no intrinsic value and that what people are doing is merely waiting for someone else to buy it on a higher price. What are your thoughts on that? Talk to us on Telegram and let us know what you think about that.Read The Full StoriesBitcoin Will Hit $20K in 2018. Here’s Why Ethereum Is a Better Bet, Says Reddit Cofounder (Fortune)Bitcoin.com to Face Lawsuit for Allegedly Tricking Users into Buying BCH (Ther Merkle)Ethereum could hit $2,500 by year-end, consulting firm says (Marketwatch)Here Come the Cloud Killers — Decentralized Services on Ethereum (Bobby Ullery)“My Bitcoin is the True Bitcoin!” A Short Primer on the BTC v. BCH War (Cryptonews)Warren Buffett on buying bitcoin: ‘That is not investing’ (Yahoo Finance)