
6 STEPS FOR STARTING TO INVEST IN CRYPTOIt can be daunting but there is a way.So you want to invest in this “new” thing called crypto but you have no idea where to begin? Welcome to the club. Here are a few places to get you started on the right foot.1. COINBASE. The first platform I invested on was Coinbase. It’s by far the most user-friendly platform. You follow the steps to create your account and then you can purchase BTC (Bitcoin), ETH (Ethereum), LTC (Litecoin) or BCH (Bitcoin cash). You’ll only see the symbpols for the coins (aka- acronyms for non-finance people) on the platforms so be sure to know your symbols well! My suggestion is to start with BTC or ETH (At least at the moment but things can change). Once you purchase BTC or ETH you can start branching out to other platforms where you can start trading.2. FOLLOW people who are big int he crypto scene and see what coins they are buying/selling/advising. If you follow people who have already done some market research it’s not a bad place to start learning about the industry and the different technologies, tokens and coins. But -3. RESEARCH. Do your own research! Now that you’ve followed your favorite crypto gurus, start doing your own research. Often the crypto peeps will post, share and even write articles that are very informative. The more you read the more you know.4. TRY DIFFERENT PLATFORMS. Once you get the hang of Coinbase you’re going to want to find a site with more capabilities like trading. Here are a few where you can trade some of the most popular coins: Poloniex.com, Binance.com, Bittrex.com and 167 more that you can research.5. FIND YOUR COIN. Figure out what coin you want to buy, find out the symbol of said coin, and then find out what platform it is traded on. You could spend a lot of time signing up on platforms that don’t support your coin. For instance, when I wanted to buy EOS I researched and found out that it is traded on BInance.com and the trading pair is BTC/EOS which means — you use BTC to purchase EOS.6. When trading be very scrupulous and meticulous. It’s relatively easy to make a mistake that could cost you money. When sending BTC from one platform to another make sure you are sending FROM a BTC wallet TO a BTC wallet — otherwise you risk losing your money. It’s basically like mailing a letter to the wrong address without a return address on it.In closing, there’s a lot to learn in this industry that is ever changing — and changing quickly. Do your due diligence and play it safe.