
Your Secret Fear Of Using Leverage Is Stopping You From “Making It”Hey! R1S1N6 here.Read this very carefully, this is one of the most important articles I have posted this year. I’m serious about that. I’m writing this as I just got back home from a long walk on the beach. That’s usually when I’m in my most creative state. I promise you, that after you’ve read this article, you’ve picked up at least 3 new deep ideas that will transform the way you approach making money with cryptocurrencies. If you won’t DM us on Twitter and I will personally have a conversation with you. That’s how much I believe in the content of this article.Before we start: this is a 3 part series, join our Telegram to get updated when the next episode comes out:CLICK HERE TO JOIN TELEGRAMSnapped a photo during my evening walk here in Huntington Beach, California.Here’s what you’re going to learn by reading this article:How You Can Take Advantage Of Smaller Market Moves Without Having A Large PortfolioIf you’re like me, you like to make money during every market cycle, but you also have to know exactly what to do.The best traders live by this quote:“Markets trend only about 15 percent of the time; the rest of the time they move sideways.” — Paul Tudor JonesYou probably also wondered what does it mean, exactly, that markets only trend about 15 percent of the time? And how do you benefit from it?Essentially, highly profitable trading is all about finding a more effective way for generating money from the markets.In this post, my goal is to teach you one of the founding principles to do this.By the end of it, you’ll know exactly what’s the biggest belief holding you back from making a lot money, not just crypto, but life overall.So, will I teach you how to HODL stronger? Or will I tell you that having a massive portfolio is the key? Can you only make money during the bull markets, and should you wait for the magic fairy to bring you the secret trading signals?I hear a lot of different theories, but I just want to say this: I feel like I live in a world that’s doing the exact opposite of what you should be doing.As Mark Twain said: Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.I feel like I live in a world where millions of people are holding their ass off, and trying to become wealthy without leveraging the environment around them.Sometimes, during the market crashes I go to Reddit, a public online forum. You can go there yourself during market crashes as well, and see the same pattern of mass behavior: people panicking their asses off after losing most of their money by holding and trading without leverage.It’s fine when the value of your holdings is worth couple thousand dollars, but what about when you “make it”? Do you really want your hundreds of thousands of dollars, or even millions of dollars be depended on the narrative that Bitcoin will rise forever, or even for the next 1–2 years?At the end of the article, I’m going to talk about how to avoid the worst-case scenario.People can HODL and work at their day jobs all they want to, but if you’re still ONLY holding these markets after you saw teenagers making millions of dollars by trading in the last bull market, I don’t know what to say. This is exactly what the market manipulators want you to do.Remember what Warren Buffet said:Rule №1: Never lose money. Rule №2: Never forget rule №1.The fact is that value investing has its place, that’s how Buffet got wealthy, but traditional stock investing is a whole different world than crypto. In fact, this is what Buffet said about crypto:“Bitcoin will definitely come to a bad ending. If I could buy a five-year put on every one of the cryptocurrencies, I’d be glad to do it,” Buffett said, referring to options trades that would profit from price declines.So, even Warren Buffet thinks that trading cryptocurrencies are more attractive than holding them.People think they’re so smart after being in crypto for 1, 2 or even 3 years, but let me get this straight: this guy is the greatest investor of all-time, has a net worth of $87.5 billion, and connections in the financial world that you couldn’t even imagine of. It’s not his first rodeo. If you’re thinking: “Oh, he’s old and doesn’t understand technology”, you’re not the first person who tried to outsmart him during his decades of success.If he’d want to, he would have the power to push most of the crypto market to virtually non-existence, and then there are these people who think they’re “smarter than him”.This might sound dangerous, if you decide to bet against the greatest financial mind this century has seen, well, the odds are heavily against you. But, if you simply make a shift in mind and approach it as he would, you are on the right path.Now, obviously I exaggerated a bit earlier: decentralization has massive value, Bitcoin is a revolutionizing currency, and in fact, I trust Bitcoin more than I trust my banks.The truth is that trading crypto is simply more stable, safe, and rewarding than holding. Trading the market also allows you to have full control over your funds, and the future you will build for yourself with them.You’ll also learn things like risk management: something you’d be completely blind to as an average hodler.So, should you simply invest more FIAT to get ahead of the curve? Should you simply “HODL” stronger? Or is there a more intelligent way to go about things?I think there’s a powerful tool available that most people simply don’t value enough.