
What is an ICO/Token Sale and Why should i join Atlasplatform’s?!ICO investments can turn little money to a lot of money!As of today we are at 8-days away from our Public Token sale, and we would like to offer a short insight of what exactly an ICO is.ICOs = Initial Coin Offerings are an alternative form of crowdfunding that has been developed outside of the traditional financial system. This model has already helped many successful projects and companies get the necessary backing required to start their business on the blockchain.For startups, it is a way of raising capital without having to fight through all the legal paperwork that come with the other forms of financing your idea. Just think about what it takes to get financing from the traditional bank :(For investors it can also be a fruitful venture. New and innovative crypto currencies are getting created and if they were to rise at the velocity of Bitcoin in the last few years, a small investment could be a return substantial wealth. These projects appeal to those investors who are familiar with or already own cryptos, and so are familiar with how crypto currencies work.Token sales usually extend over a period of few weeks or more and in which any person is allowed to purchase newly issued tokens by transferring more established crypto currencies like Bitcoin (BTC) or Ether (ETH) to the crowd-sale wallet.In order to take part in an ICO — contributors need crypto currency to transfer to specified addresses. Usually all ICO projects have such address listed on the website as soon as ICO starts, so every interested investor could take part. The pretty thing about it is that BTC and ETH payments to an ICO crowd-sale address are logged on public blockchains, allowing anyone to see the quantity and amounts going to a particular ICO. Crowdfunding is transparent as never before!The Pre-ICO round a honeypot for early investors.Early bakers get a bigger slice!In the recent history we note a tendency to organize an ICO in two rounds, where early investors are offered a better price than later investors, but at the same time their contribution must be bigger to compensate for a better deal.Although it presents a benefit for some, the number of coins in a Pre-sale is significantly smaller than in the full fledged public phase. This presents itself with additional toll for the project as it increases the discrepancy between early bakers and late contributors. Some have noted that the difference might surpass a 50% to 100% markup… so this method doesn’t quite work for all the investors, especially that most early bakers tend to cover their investment as soon the coin is listed on a exchange resulting in high volatility and a lasting price recovery.Keeping this in mind many coin-starters launch a pre-ICO, making use of the gathered funds and spending heavily to promote their projects to the second and larger round. Which we consider to be a waste… that doesn’t benefit the project in the long run. That is why Atlasplatform doesn’t have an pre-ICO round.What do investors expect from an ICO?ICOs the hottest thing right now within the crypto currency world! And there is certainly a reason why: Money>Money>Money :DThe expectation is that the tokens will be listed on crypto currency exchanges soon after ICO, and often much before the tokens become usable for their stated intent. This provides the secondary market where early investors can sell their tokens. Due to the popularity of recent crypto millionaires, profits have been anywhere from 100x to 1000x to 10000x in return. This creates a cycle of new millionaires which then dump huge amounts of money into new ICOs.Always DYOR — Do Your Own ResearchConsider the following 4 golden rules, when picking an ICO:You have read the white paper in detail and you really understand the idea;There is a potential demand for the product offered;The business model explains demand and growth potential for the token itself;You understand that there is a risk involved.Initial coin offerings are becoming a more frequently used tool for startups and they will not be going away. They open up the possibilities at a global scale, and with more money flowing around the ecosystem it can only benefit the future industry of crypto currencies. Triple digit growth, amazing risk-reward ratios, and promising worldwide perspectives are only few reasons why ICO investments shouldn’t be overlooked by any investor, willing to diversify his portfolio and profit from opportunities offered by a booming market.But wait? aren’t you going to tell me about Atlasplatform’s token sale?> Yes, but this deserves a post of its own don’t you agree? ;) Link will be here<