
Blockchain, Episode 1The purpose of this article is to raise awareness of Blockchain technology and its impact on the Supply Chain industry to the general public. This article is attended for a broad audience with little understanding of supply chain and Blockchain.Blockchain, the new kid on the block as our CTO would say, is clearly a hot topic. Much of the hype as come in the form of Bitcoin and other digital currencies. However, the general public and many board rooms are still getting Blockchain and Bitcoin mixed up. To clear things up…THEY ARE NOT THE SAME. Bitcoin is one of many applications of Blockchain technology. If you want to learn more about the difference see IBM’s blog post. This will be the last time I reference Bitcoin.Supply Chain, as we know it today, is a series of transactions that enable a good or service to be provided to the end consumer. One can describe it as network of middlemen that convert raw materials into a product of value and put this product into the hands of the consumer. Below is a very simplified example of the supply chain for mangoes sold at a grocery store.Image sources: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Mango_tree_(22708493).jpg, https://pixabay.com/en/boxes-crates-container-package-2719172/, https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Fresh-mango-smoothie_01.jpg, https://pixabay.com/en/truck-wheeler-trucker-blue-red-307113/, https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Warehouse_Loading_Dock.JPG, https://www.flickr.com/photos/fruitnet/2967348493Let’s walk through the supply chain example above:Mango farms sell its mangoes to a Raw Produce Distributor, which has relationships with various processors. This distributor bring trucks to the farm and loads the trucks with harvested mangoes.The Raw Produce Distributor sells and delivers the mangoes to a processor.Processor converts the raw mangoes into a packaged consumable good to be sold in grocery stores (i.e. mango juice, sliced mango). The processor packages the processed mangoes and sells them to a distributor, which has relationships with various grocery chains. Distributor brings trucks to the processing facilities and loads the trucks with packaged mango products.Distributor sells and delivers the packaged mango products to the grocery chain’s distribution centers.The grocery chain distributes the packaged mango products from its distribution centers to its various grocery stores.How does Blockchain fit in?Blockchain allows for each transaction between each stakeholder in the supply chain to be visible in a shared ledger. Imagine each transaction being recorded in a book and each stakeholder has the same copy of that book. Blockchain technology enables visibility and traceability into the supply chain. This is essential for every stakeholder in the supply chain. It’s important for each stakeholder to understand what goes into the products it sells. A stakeholder is accountable for what it sells. If there is a defect in the product, it is the seller’s responsibility to identify the defect products, identify the root cause of the defect and take corrective action accordingly. In the supply chain, the root cause of this defect can originate at any point in the supply chain process. The process to trace the defect to its root cause take’s sellers almost a week. Blockchain technology enables sellers to do this within seconds. Using the example above, we can outline the steps required to identify the root cause and its financial impact on the seller:These figures are for example purposes only but do represent what large retailers observeWalmart has been working closely with IBM and Hyperledger to enable Blockchain technology in its operations and is planning to go live this year. Through this pilot project, Walmart was able to reduce traceability from 6 days, 18 hours and 26 minute to 2.2 seconds. Also, check out this short 3 minute video in which Frank Yiannas, Walmart’s VP of Food Safety, explains the Blockchain pilot.The above mango food safety example is one of many ways Blockchain technology will provide value add to the supply chain industry. Blockchain’s impact on the supply chain industry is estimated in the $trillions.Orderful is excited to be a part of this transformative era in supply chain. Stay tuned for future posts in which I will dive into further detail around Blockchain enabled Supply Chains. I’ll be covering topics such as electronic data interchange (EDI), digital asset tracking, lot traceability, smart contracts, Blockchain interoperability, the network effect, compliance and much more.To learn more, please contact manav@orderful.com.