
Egretia (Blockchain)The World’s First HTML5 Blockchain Engine and Platform.The Egretia game platform is a decentralized HTML5 game distribution platform. Developers can independently launch HTML5 games and release tasks encouraging players to spread games. After completing the promotion tasks, players will get some digital tokens as reward. This way, developers will be able to attract many players, those players are able to gain digital tokens, thus forming a healthy ecosystem.The Egretia public chain will be using a DPoS (Delegated Proof of Stake) as consensus mechanism. The DPoS mechanism is similar to a board vote, where holders of coins cast a certain number of nodes, using the mechanism for verification and bookkeeping. DPoS can significantly reduce the number of participating nodes for verification and bookkeeping, it will be able to achieve consensus verification in a second. The stability of DPoS mechanism has been verified in BTS, EOS and other projects. Egretia is a public chain with high concurrent processing power, where performance is optimized for the needs of the game industry. It has a fast TPS (Transaction Per Second) rate. Nonetheless, in blockchain technology, an “impossible triangle” exists, meaning that scalability, decentralization, and security cannot be achieved at the same time. Using a DPoS mechanism to greatly increase scalability, more than 2000 transactions per second could be supported in the initial test chain. In the future, we will increase the TPS according to business needs.With blockchain popularity rapidly increasing, many developers are eager to “blockchain-ize” their games. However, as a matter of fact, blockchain technology is fairly complicated. At the same time, not all developers have sufficient time to fully leverage the underlying technology. The Egretia Game API is a solution through which developers can get easy access to blockchain. Through the Egretia Game API, HTML5 games can be “blockchain-ized” with just a few lines of code. As you can see from the image above, by adding the Egretia BaaS SDK into games, and then calling the API interface in accordance with official documentation tutorials, developers will be able to combine HTML5 games with blockchain technology.Egretia joins hands with Egret Technology who has spent four years focusing on HTML5 workflow development. This workflow includes over 10 products, has reached more than 200,000 developers worldwide. Furthermore, the content powered by this workflow has covered 1 billion mobile terminals. Egretia integrates Egret’s proven workflow into its blockchain interface layer, thus all HTML5 games have access to the world’s first complete blockchain development suite. Furthermore, this interface framework, not only supports Egretia’s own public chain but also can be extended to support Ethereum, EOS and other public chains in the future.Proven Development WorkflowEgretia joins hands with Egret Technology who has spent four years focusing on HTML5 workflow development. This workflow includes over 10 products, has reached more than 200,000 developers worldwide. Furthermore, the content powered by this workflow has covered 1 billion mobile terminals.Blockchain SDK for Easy ExtensionEgretia integrates Egret’s proven workflow into its blockchain interface layer, thus all HTML5 games have access to the world’s first complete blockchain development suite. Furthermore, this interface framework, not only supports Egretia’s own public chain, but also can be extended to support Ethereum, EOS and other public chains in the future.The World’s Largest HTML5 Blockchain PlatformThe Egretia platform includes a blockchain-based development workflow, four core platforms and an incubator, providing comprehensive blockchain solutions and services for players, content-providers, channels and advertisers, and facilitating a complete ecosystem.Tokens DetailsA self-developed, efficient public chain based on the DPoS (Delegated Proof of Stake) consensus mechanism, aiming at optimizing HTML5 game performance. Through the blockchain interface layer, in combination with the Egret engine tools, developers can quickly create blockchain-based DApps.Token — EGTPlatform — EthereumCountry — SingaporeWhitelist/KYC — KYC & WhitelistRestricted areas — USA, ChinaADVISORS and PARTNERSProject TeamEgretia Blockchain Lab, with core members from Qualcomm, Adobe, Microsoft, etc., as well as experts in blockchain field, is devoted to combining blockchain technology with Egret’s leading HTML5 engine and tool technologies, aiming for applying blockchain to vertical industries.ROADMAPMore Info:Website:http://egretia.ioWhitepapper: http://egretia.io/static/Egretia_White_Paper_V1.0.pdfTelegram Group: https://t.me/EgretiaTwitter: https://twitter.com/Egretia_ioFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/Egretia.io/Medium: https://medium.com/egretia