
UCHIT- THE DECENTRALIZED PEER TO PEER ECOSYTEMINTRODUCTIONThe communication industry has experienced sharp growth over the last decades of life. The invention of peer to peer to platforms has had great influence on the growth of the industry. Friends cannot chat and exchange information without passing through a middleman which sometimes makes communication inconvenient because people are not able to express themselves well. Fortunately, Uchit is here to deliver us from these middle-man form of communication. Uchit totally removes the middleman and allows its platform users to directly communicate through the blockchain network. By encrypting communications on the blockchain and allowing nodes to communicate directly, Uchit is a fully decentralized platform allowing users to exchange information and collaborate at their own free will.UCHIT’S P2P NETWORKThe basics of the Uchit P2P network is for peers to get connected to communicate through text chat, voice chat, video chat, after which they can easily Collaborate through sharing of files and screen, using same programming project folders and editors etc. Imagine bringing everyday communication to the worldwide free market and allowing users to willingly find people, text chat, voice chat, video chat, share files, host meetings etc, wouldn’t that be wonderful? This was the main reason that set Uchit into action in early 2016. The communications industry has long been a victim of decentralization issues such as shutdowns, government interference, strict regulations, just to mention a few.Uchit is with aim of revolutionizing the perception the world have about communication by decentralizing the communication industry and allowing nodes in the network to communicate directly without outside interference.UCHIT TOKENSUchit tokens (UCHT) are ERC20-standardized used to power movement on the network and are the main incentivization medium in the Uchit ecosystem. It will be used in exchange for hiring people to get into teams, requesting files from people and communicating with them, buying templates from Teams etc. To earn UCHT, users can sell templates and assets, respond to communication and team joining requests, etc with the network and be rewarded with UCHT each time there is a communication or Collaboration. You can also earn UCHT on numerous cryptocurrency exchanges online and will be directly exchangeable for Ethereum.THE UCHIT APPLICATION AND FEATURESUchit is a Communication and Collaboration Hub using the Blockchain Technology. The development of Uchit provides solution for personal use such as communication with friends and families, Enterprise use for corporates, Professional use such as collaboration for programmers, musicians, artists, etc and communication between Investors, Freelancers, etc, just to mention few. It is in our plans to develop APIs to allow other platforms to integrate our service and use Uchit on their platform also.UCHT ICO CROWDSALEOUR ROADMAPSiddhant DixitFounder/CEOAprit CRASSCMOCRASS InfotechPlatform DeveloperPrateek SinghCBDOChauvs D.Social Media & Community ManagerEutiquio Auxtero Jr.Marketing LeadFilip PoutintsevGidhum MPAkata ArafatContact us on:WebsiteWhitepaperANN threadFacebookTelegramAuthorshipBitcointalkprofile