
UCHIT: Improving Communication and Collaboration with the Blockchain TechnologyUchit is a shared (P2P) appropriated joint effort and correspondence platform planned at its center to upgrade the way individuals speak with each other/to their crowd and work together with colleagues. Customers lean toward open correspondence about items and their issues. UCHIT is building an answer for correspondence for experts and for individuals everywhere throughout the world. Distributed correspondence is the center of the platform as it imagines a decentralized correspondence later on. Expelling all the agents and outsiders from the correspondence between two individuals, it is conveying a genuine decentralized correspondence to the world. Experts, endeavors and understudies everywhere throughout the world can use the platform without fearing that somebody can close down their correspondence whenever.Correspondence is the key as everybody says that. People have spent a vast piece of their life on the planet inquiring about approaches to impart better and clear. From letters to WhatsApp, we have seen everything in the correspondence space. Conversing with your family and companions or conveying your message to the client on the grounds that if the straightforward correspondence does not happen then relationship dies in some horrible, nightmarish way. This specialty of correspondence seems to be accurate for each circumstance throughout everyday life and business. The digital money will be the standard cash later on. It is the best decision we have at the present time which takes care of the considerable number of issues related with the customary cash framework.Special Features of Uchit PlatformWell right off the bat its in view of blockchain innovation, and the second thing is — it will contain every one of the devices at one place.You require content/voice/video visit/record sharing, programming joint effort, group based talk/document sharing, online courses and so forth.Live proofreader for developersCommercial center to discover experts, employ them, shape a groupCommercial center to discover pre-made layouts/resources for begin your task.NOTE — Many more applications will be made, for instance music producer and considerably more, we will continue making applications utilized as a part of each industry.An ever increasing number of highlights will be added time-to-time.The administrations offered by the platform will upgrade the venture coordinated effort abilities of the groups and organizations. Without the need of any outsider, individuals will be free and secure with the decentralized application. I think it is a center for the joint effort and correspondence as they have said on their site. The genuine use of the platform will choose the eventual fate of the platform.SOLUTION OFFERED BY UCHITUchit introduces communications centers and collaborative tools for Individuals, Professionals and Business Entities that are not available with existing tools. Uchit development is a tip-to-end solution for:+ Personal use such as communicating with friends and family.+ Professional usage such as collaboration for programmer, musician, artist.+ Professional use such as communication between Investor, Project, Freelancer.+ Corporate use for corporates.+ Website sites that want to have community features on their own website.+ and there will be many more of its other features.UCHIT P2P NETWORKBasics — First Peer is connected to the first app called Communications (text chat / voice chats / video chat). Once peers are connected and can communicate, they can easily Collaborate (Share Files using programming and editor project folders or share the same share). as:+ New Way to Use Communications.+ Uchit Token for Short Overview.+ Use of Case.+ Decentralization as a core component of communication and collaboration.Uchit will take you everyday communication to the global free market and let users find people, text chat, voice chat, video chat, file sharing, sharing screen, host meetings, hosted webinars. This is the idea that made Uchit act in early 2016. The communications industry has long been the victim of shutdown, government interference, and strict regulations derived from decentralization.By removing central servers and allowing nodes on the network to communicate directly without outside interference, Uchit aims to revolutionize the way the world thinks about communication. Disturbing this market is a multibillion-dollar effort. In the long run, Uchit aims to be a leading file sharing platform for users around the world. as shown below:APPLICATIONS AND FEATURES UCHITUchit is based Center for Communication and Collaboration Technology Blockchain. Uchit introduces communications centers and collaborative tools for Individuals, Professionals and Business Entities that are not available with existing tools.You need text / voice / video chat and file sharing, programming collaboration tools, team-based tools, webinars. Set up targeted connections, find people, create a team with this Uchit platform with ease. Here at Uchit we have all the tools for you:You want to build a project and need people to help you or want to hire professionals for your project.Now you want to collaborate with your team.You want to host a Webinar / Business Meeting.You just want to chat and share files with your friends and family.You want to add community features on your own website. (We will provide API).ABOUT UCHIT TOKENSUchit (UCHT) tokens are the core of Uchit’s incentivization protocol. Users can “spend” UCHT in exchange for hiring people to get into teams, requesting communication with people, requesting files from people, buying templates from Teams (freelancing) — like a marketplace for new projects, etc. To accumulate UCHT, users can sell templates and assets, respond to communication/team joining requests, etc with the network (seeding) and be rewarded with UCHT each time they communicate or Collaborate. UCHT can also be acquired on numerous cryptocurrency exchanges on the web, and will be directly exchangeable for Ethereum.ICO INFORMATION AND TEAM712,350,000 UCHIT Tokens are made for the venture in which 65% is held for the group. The token deal will begin from the first may 2018 and proceed until the point when 31st may 2018. The assets will be used for the advancement and promoting of the platform. The group taking a shot at the venture has involvement in the fields of blockchain innovation and the business advancement.ROADMAPTEAMFor more information, visit;Web: https://uchit.info/Whitepaper: https://uchit.info/Uchit-Whitepaper.pdfAnn Thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3167782.new#newTwitter: https://twitter.com/Uchit_coinCrass Club: https://crassclub.com/UchitTelegram: https://t.me/uchit_coinAuthored by Danny_yell: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1273420