
Interview with the Abacas teamToday, I have interviewed the Abacas Exchange team, on their ICO and future projects. Abacas is developing a blockchain-powered decentralized exchange that allows you to trade any asset. Abacas is listed to organize a token sale in Q2–2018.1) What problem are you solving and why do you need blockchain technology? AbacasXchange simplifies the complex world of trading. It solves a number of problems:a. Typically, it takes a minimum of 3 and as many as 5 fees to trade one asset for another. In contrast, Abacas allows you to exchange AAPL stock for BTC in 1 transaction. This reduces a great deal of the transaction cost.b. Both traditional and cryptocurrency exchanges have been known for “gaming” their clients by using system tweaks such as queue jumping, maker-taker pricing models, server colocation preferences, price crawlers and unfair pricing practices. In other words, there has been a lack of transparency. All transactions on AbacasXchange are posted on a public ledger and can be viewed by anyone. The Abacas order management process is transparent to the community.c. Nowadays, trading is mostly binary. You can choose to receive only EUR or only USD or only something else in exchange for the stock you are selling. AbacasXchange improves liquidity by Direct and Indirect trading. Think of it like this. If you want to sell 1000 GOOG, you can decide to receive some GLD or MSFT or BT or EUR or USD or ABCS or BTC. This creates an infinite coincidence of supply.d. The AbacasXchange “safety deposit box” provides a decentralized secure backup for your private keys.  There is no chance to lose your funds by accident. Abacas needs blockchain as it creates an immutable record of transactions clearly defining ownership. It is also used as a tool for audit to provide transparency to the users and for reconciliation of the assets in custody. Moreover, exchange settlement times greatly improve when assets are committed to a ledger.2) What are the main pillars that define your company and differentiate you from competitors? AbacasXchange is the first universal exchange that allows you to trade, exchange and transfer any asset. This means Cryptocurrencies, Commodities, Stocks and etc. all on one platform.AbacasXchange stands for fair financial markets and is ethical towards its investors. Crypto-exchanges are fraught with conflicts of interest as they fulfil the role of a matching engine, custodian, broker-dealer, market-maker [at times], settlement agent and order manager. Abacas acts solely as an operator and matching engine. Abacas has no conflicts of interest in its process. Subject to regulations, the AbacasXchange allows one to tokenize one’s own assets. For example, you can deposit an asset to custody, it is then tokenized and can be transferred on the AbacasXchange.3) Why did you decide to launch an ICO and why do you need a public token sale?  a. Roadblocks by the vested interests meant we had to pivot our model to be universally inclusive. In other words, we had to step beyond our first baby step in order to gain traction. We initially wished to partner with the vested interests but they were very slow and very territorial.b. We modified the model and built a framework to manage both value transfer; data transfer and micro payments.c. The token acts as a utility token but also as a liquidity token. Our token is used to pay for transaction processing and it is simultaneously used as a liquidity outlet.d. Abacas wanted a broad ownership pool — unlike a fully subscribed presale, a public sale creates a more diverse user base.4) How does your token function within the platform and why is it needed?  An ABCS is the native payment token for use on the AbacasXchange. It is made up of “abbits” (0.000000001 of an ABCS).Abacas solves the micro payments challenge: Imagine a typical transaction in which a client wishes to trade from a mosaic on XEM to an ERC20 token via the exchange. That single transaction may require 8 or 10 “partner chain” validations eg PoA (Proof of Asset), AML/KYC, Value Transfers, custodial validations, regulatory validations subject to asset class — each of these chains and suppliers may have a different pricing models based on their service or asset which means that a client would need to hold many 100s of currencies at any time. This is highly inefficient and impractical. It also increases costs. The ABCS readily conveys between all of the chains mitigating the cost and nuisance of the micropayments as it relates to the activity in the AbacasXchange.ABCS tokens also operate as liquidity tokens within the AbacasXchange. The tokens act as a currency token and may be a client selection if they wish to “park value” in the exchange while they seek their next opportunity. It can also act as a “Gateway Asset”.5) How did you decide the total supply and distribution among stakeholders?We researched how others were conducting their token sales & distributions and selected the method which best suited the needs of the project.6) Where do you see the value of your token in the medium to long term? We are building a real product and have been for a number of years. There is the expression, “It takes 10 years to become an overnight sensation.” That is Abacas. We have invested our energies into a winning solution. We have also priced our token very competitively. We understand the costs of building what we are building. We have communicated with successful exchange start-ups so we understand the revenue-cost model. However, it could potentially be illegal for me to reflect on where I think the price will be in the mid to long term. Suffice it to say that we know what is built [we are impart this to our community], we know our team, we know where we are going, and therefore we expect to be successful.7) What is the ultimate benefit of your token for the token holders? The ABCS token has two purposes — it acts as the currency among blockchain service providers. It also acts as a liquidity token in two areas: i. for clients who use the AbacasXchange for data transfer and may not otherwise have a liquidity channel; ii. for clients who wish to use the ABCS token as its reserve currency or a Gateway Asset.8) Do you believe that the volatility of the cryptocurrency market might affect the economy of your project in any way?Yes, without a doubt but if you recall the history of the internet, a great many firms had initiatives in the late 90’s early 00’s but only a precious few survived. These were the firms that were interested in building a product rather than simply raising money. We do believe that blockchain is here to stay and that provides us a foundation to continue the development.  9) What are your plans following the ICO?  We have developed our generalized roadmap that brings us to launch in Q1/Q2 2019. Our detailed roadmap includes much more than simply the technology. We have business development, community development, legal and regulatory, and product development workstreams that we are active while we build. We welcome the token event as this provides us with an audience that will act as a stakeholder and can be a sounding board and source of innovation. We are motivated to enhance our community.