
Crypto is supposed to change the world. Not just make you rich.Daily Blog #22Crypto currencies are here. And they’re changing a lot of things. The massive impact of Ethereum, Bitcoin and other tokesn has outwardly some visible effects — the internet millionaires and their Lambos, the conferences featuring Pitbull and Sylvestor Stallone. But the invisible effects are where I’m interested. That’s where I’m watching it play out.A lot of these coins and tokens have shifted from being crypto currencies to being digital assets. Wealth building properties with massive speculation. That’s a big shift away from the digital currency vision that propelled a lot of the interest and, to me, still holds most of the appeal.When I’m looking at these currencies, I’m not interested in how high the market cap is. I’m not interested in how to make a fuck-tonne of money from them. Honestly, making a fuck-tonne of money has never been that exciting to me. What I’m fascinated with is that original vision, of a global, secure currency that could even the playing field, destroy inequality and open up markets never before imaginable.The future of crypto currency shouldn’t be speculative.It shouldn’t be about having an asset that makes money. We already have enough of those. What we need is a financial solution to the problems that are tearing this world apart.The problems of education, access to information, access to working entrepreneurial capital, gatekeepers who benefit from keeping large portions of the population down and out, and governments who benefit from the financial dependencies and insecurity of their citizens.Part of the solution to these problems is always going to be in the redistribution of power, and that redistribution can only happen through a financial shift. The vision of enabling that through a secure digital currency not only allows for the first real progress towards democratisation since the industrial revolution, it also allows for the potential of a true global citizenship.That vision has to be held dear.The money is tempting. Focusing on building crypto products to capitalise on it is tempting. It’s also easier. While the technology has the ability to revolutionise literally everything, it’s a lot simpler to just build some bullshit crypto product or token and then make a mint and call it a day. Or even scam a bunch of people.What we need is to remain somehow connected to the purity of the original promise of crypto currencies. What we need is to remain focused on the positive application of it in the real world. What we need is to approach it with an ethical understanding and a dedication to building ethical worlds, in which the benefits of crypto go way beyond buying a damn Lambo.I am not a cynical person. I am an optimist. My hopes get up over almost anything, believe me. But I don’t think that’s a bad thing. My hopes are up over crypto because I know that it can make a difference, and at the end of the day, isn’t that what we all want?Remember. The world isn’t going to be made better just by you making money. It’s going to be made better by the focused application of innovative technology, contextualised to its users, designed ethically and equitably. That’s where we need to push this tech.