
3 Cryptocurrencies To Watch: RVN, ZEN & OLTAll cryptocurrencies mentioned in my posts go through my initial analysis process which you can find in my free guide: ‘7 Step Analysis To Quickly Spot High-Quality ICOs & Cryptocurrencies’. Get My Free Guide Here.The purpose of this blog post is not to provide a review of the projects — there are enough of those out online, this post is just to share my thoughts and opinion after taking a look and researching the projects.I’m also not a techie, so this won’t be my angle, if you’re looking for a technical explanation of the project, again there’s loads of those out there online too, so you will be better off looking elsewhere. As an investor, this is where I will be coming from in this post, keeping the content simple and concise on what I like, or don’t like about the projects mentioned.In no particular order. Let’s get to it — here are 3 to watch.#1 RavencoinThis has been confirmed as the ‘secret project’ of Patrick Bryne CEO of Overstock.com who is also behind Tzero. The tech team is strong and seems competent. I like the approach of this crypto as there was no ICO as they want the project to kind of earn it’s value. The blockchain is already live and has around 20k+ miners already at the time of writing this having only launched in January 2018. Currently at a relatively low marketcap in comparison to the potential of this project, at the time of writing, this project could be BIG. Certainly one to watch. Hardcap At Writing: $32mln.#2 OneledgerI like the problem this project plans to solve and the team pulled together to solve it. Anything that simplifies blockchain adoption is always attractive to me. Plus, the advisors give me confidence that they will have the connections they need to get fast adoption and usage. The cap for this kind of project is very attractive in compared to projects in a similar space. For me this is one to watch. ICO Date TBC.#3 ZenCashI’m overall bullish on privacy coins. With this being a privacy coin and platform with a partnership with IHOK (creators of Cardano and Ethereum Classic) and Charles Hoskins has openly tweeted that ZenCash is one his favourite projects…that’s almost all I need to know. Given that it’s a quality project that’s live with such strong connections, for me this is one to watch. Hardcap At Writing: $135mln.Website: http://www.cryptocurrencyorchard.comFree Guide: http://www.cryptocurrencyorchard.com/guideTelegram: http://t.me/cc_orchard