
SpaceKIM BIG Update: Exchange Listing, Merch Store, Bounty & Airdrop.Dear comrades,We would like to thank you for your patience. As our Lucid Visionary Kim Jong-Un likes to say “everything comes to him who waits”. The time for the big update is ripe now.Exchange ListingWe are proud to announce that SpaceKIM is finally landing on its first exchange. The Marvelous Leader’s pointing finger has selected a newly-born but brightly shining and promising decentralized (the only centralized exchange the Greatest Leader would accept is centralized by himself) exchange Token Store. KIM/ETH trading will begin on April 30.Token Store is the first but not the last exchange for KIM. We are negotiating with several more exchanges now. We may need some help from the community in order to get on some bigger ones. So stay tuned, check our telegram chat and be ready to press the big red ‘vote’ button when the time comes.SpaceKIM ShopThe best North Korean artists and fashionistas have created designs for SpaceKIM official apparel and collectibles. Now you can acquire these rare items in our official store: https://shop.spacekim.io/Currently, all goods are available in pre-sale and all orders will be shipped after May 15.We accept Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin and Bitcoin Cash as payment options.Several more designs and items will be added in the next couple of weeks. Follow the updates in our Twitter and Telegram.Airdrop & BountyIn order to celebrate SpaceKIM’s exchange listing, Shining Star of Juche Kim Jong-Un has decreed to bestow 2,400,000 of KIM tokens and, consequently 2,400,000 km2 of moon land upon the most devoted SpaceKIM supporters. All tokens will be distributed through bounty campaign and an airdrop.The bounty will consist of Signature, Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, Blog campaigns and, MOST IMPORTANTLY, Meme Campaign! Prepare you imagination and unholster your meme blasters! The best ones will be awarded by His Cosmic Majesty himself.More info can be found on Bitcointalk: https://goo.gl/AdGg78Partnerships and new ideasNow as trading is about to commence, it’s the moment when we need to consolidate our efforts in order to bring SpaceKIM to a new stage of virality. For that reason we encourage you to spread the word of SpaceKIM and the Glorious Leader with the doubled power.Also, we are open to new ideas and partnerships. So If you have any suggestions (even the craziest ones) of how to make SpaceKIM better, feel free to express yourself. You can write us a line at kim@spacekim.io, @spacekim in Telegram or in our public chat https://t.me/spacekimico .It’s just the beginning of a long space journey! Stay tuned and never lose faith in SpaceKIM and the Marvellous Commander Kim Jong-Un. The will be more news and updates in a short while!To the moon!