
To the Moon or to the Rescue? Blockchain Is About Much More than ProfitsBlockchain is making waves in the world of humanitarian aid, if only more folks would take notice.Those of us in the blockchain community may not fully appreciate how new and unexplored this technology is. We have blinders on; we talk about it daily, we go to meet-ups, we hang out in Telegram chats that act as echo chambers. Sure, Bitcoin is nearing its tenth birthday, but while most folks have heard the term, far fewer can tell you the difference between blockchain and Bitcoin. While many associate new, scary technology with the advent of Skynet, it seems the humanitarian potential of blockchain remains woefully underreported.For example, check out this story on Etheric, a blockchain development, consulting, and services firm who was approached by two local Ethereum developers to create policy solutions in the wake of the devastation of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico. Insurance is tailor-made for decentralization (“cut out the middleman” refers to a huge swath of the industry), leading to a smoother and fairer claims process with every transaction clearly shown on the ledger to both insurers and residents. If certain weather parameters (determined and clearly laid out in advance) are met, insurance payouts can be made automatically while things like fraud detection become easier.This is an appropriate use case for, and one of the reasons so much work is being done on blockchain oracles, needed here to address the fact that the weather data necessary to trigger the smart contract does not exist inside the blockchain.It’s no secret that Puerto Rico needs more assistance than it’s currently receiving. Enter blockchain. In what is a perfect microcosm for the community in general, technology can provide a solution that actually helps people while governments lag behind thanks to lobbyists, red tape, and regulation.This isn’t a new thing by any stretch, but it does take a back seat to stories about crypto-market volatility, scams, bad behavior, and government freak-outs. UNICEF assembled a group of blockchain experts with the goal of developing a platform to enable sending payments to help Syrian children. OneRelief is a decentralized mobile donation platform aimed at relief micro-donations for disasters both natural and man-made. Good-faith blockchain companies are out there, even if they aren’t dominating the headlines. Hopefully, preferably sometime soon, that can change.