
Development News — 5–4–2018Today was a very productive week on multiple fronts. The masternode DAPP is looking great and our exchange interface is visually stunning. The next version of Featherlite is also wrapping up and should be out to testnet next week.Road to Main NetWallet: It has been a crazy week for the wallet and we are finalizing interaction with smart contracts. Currently users will be able to “watch” a deployed smart contract and execute its methods. Users will also be able to add erc20 tokens to the wallet and it will automatically update your accounts with the respective token’s balances, allowing users to send tokens to each other. We are putting the finishing touches on contract deployment from wallet and a new version should be released to testnet very soon.Deploy a Smart ContractContract Detail ViewAccounts ViewMasternode: The updated contracts have been integrated and the dapp is now 100% functional. Testing on devnet has begun.Beyond Main NetQuest: Quest is coming together nicely. We have a refined user experience being ironed out, along with high speed message delivery continuing to be improved upon. Expect to experience a global player among chat, communication, and message delivery systems.Quest will be the central technology that ties together our community and notification systems.Other: Other pieces of the platform are being evaluated and iterated upon such as the portfolio, multi-exchange control, multi-coin wallet, and marketplace. Expect to see updates on these after main net launch as we focus on further development of the main platform.Exchange: The exchange website continues to take shape with most of the trading page UI being completed this week. The back end team continues to work on APIs with a strong focus on scalability and resilience.We aim to begin accepting pre-registrations for the exchange at some point this month to smooth out the initial onboarding of users when we eventually take the exchange live. Stay tuned!^Devin Seto, John Leider, Sean Valeo