
Omega Oneco-authored by James RuoccoIdeaOmega One is a decentralized trading platform that aims to lower the costs of trading cryptocurrencies. This is accomplished by leveraging a private exchange dubbed the Omega One Dark Pool. If the dark pool lacks funds to fill an order, the Omega Trading Engine will partition the order into manageable chunks, allowing it to be filled on public exchanges. The trading engine will utilize algorithms to find the optimal time, size, and public exchange for the lowest liquidity cost.TeamLiquidity costs are a HUGE problem. One would think a team of 4 people could not handle the undertaking. Originally, we were hesitant to review the project. But after further research, we realized that this organization has serious potential. - https://omega.one/teamAlex Gordon-Brander: CEOHolds a patent on MarketAxess, a bond trading platform with $2 trillion traded to date.Wrote the trading algorithm for Bridgewater AssociatesExperience designing alternative currency systems and financial markets before the Bitcoin Whitepaper.Daniel Flax: CTOFormer Managing Director of Trading Systems at the New York Stock Exchange, where he led the digitalization of trade execution and settlement.Former ICO at Cowen and CompanyFormer VP Engineering at CAN CapitalJames FeatherlyFormer Executive Director of the Electronic Trading Product at Morgan Stanley in Tokyo and Hong Kong.Major force in building Morgan Stanley electronic trading platform across all major Asia equity markets.James AndrewCreator of a “Liquidity Engine” — a NASDAQ automated market making system that routed orders through ECN markets.Founder of Pixel Router — leading VR companySenior Software Engineer at ON-NET Surveillance Systems, Inc.Advisors (notable ones)Bart Chilton — Former CFTC CommissionerJoseph Lubin — Ethereum Co-Founder | ConsenSys FounderJose Marques — Head of Trading at Bridgewater, Deutsche BankPartners: ConsenSysBuilding a private exchange that keep costs low, allows users to keep custody over their tokens, and can fill orders by leveraging public exchanges is a herculean task (especially for a team of 4). Omega One seems to agree that they need more support. Their careers page shows they are hiring for over 10 different positions. While they need more team members, their advisors could not be better. Although they partnered with ConsenSys (the leading application developer for the Ethereum platform) Omega one will need more support to solve the liquidity problems of the crypto market.Type: It is a decentralized exchange competing with the largest players in the industry by promising cheaper transaction costs.Problem: The illiquidity of the crypto market places an invisible “liquidity fee” on its participants. Even though exchanges charge fees around 0.1%-1.5%. In actually, they are paying a much higher fee depending on the size/timing of their order. It can be as large as 7%.Solution Mechanics:Private Exchange (Dark Pool): closed to the public, so large transactions (block trading) can be settled without impacting the market. For example: large sell orders can trigger a bearish sentiment on sellers causing the asset to depreciate. In the worst case scenario, it can cause a flash crash to by triggering several sell orders as it happened on GDAX on June 21st 2017 when Ether went from $320 to $0.10. The Omega Dark Pool will only be available for token holders. Unlike the average Dark Pool, Omega One can settle unfilled orders in public exchanges through their Trading Engine.Trading Engine: Assesses how much liquidity the Dark Pool will need, and then finds it on public exchanges. In essence, it will break down the larger orders unfilled in the Dark Pool into smaller orders to be placed on the exchanges. Algorithms will be used to ensure that the small orders do not incur any “liquidity fees” by identifying the right size and time to place the orders.Omega One Wallet: Integrated with multiple blockchains and gives the custody of the token to the user (the user will own the private key). The wallet will support automatic settlements and be capable of locking tokens for trading.Balance Sheet Manager:Allows the tokens to never leave the user’s wallet until the transactions are verified & locked.Omega One pays for larger orders in advance and collects the funds later. Normally large orders are filled by several smaller orders. However, by fronting a large order, Omega One will only post one transaction on the blockchain. This reduces transaction costs.Reduces leakage of information by reducing the number of trades needed to fill large orders.To Consider: The Omega One Darkpool, Balance Sheet, and Trading Engine will be managed by quasi-trustless smart contracts until Q1 2020, when it will become completely trustless. However, users will have custody of their tokens from product launch.Roadmap:Q2 2018 — Release of the minimum product with compatibility with BTC/ETH and 2–5 exchanges. This is great as we will have a product close to the launch of the ICO.Q1 2019 — Fiat currency implemented, more tokens/exchanges support. We think that this date will be major because most large orders are filled in the OTC market with FIAT.Q1 2020 — full trustless liquidity mechanism and self-improving/decentralized logic. Basically improvements on the algorithm and smart contracts.MarketIt is important to consider that Omega One is targeting large investors that need a certain level of liquidity currently not offered on traditional exchanges. We have no doubt that a lot of institutional money will eventually enter the crypto market and that Omega One will be the perfect fit for them. But for that, Omega One will need to wait for proper regulation to be in place so the large players are comfortable investing. The fiat integration will be crucial for Omega One to bring the large investors and the OTC market to their platform. These external factors stretch out their timeline so it resembles an actual start-up as opposed to a “run & gun” ICO structure.CommunityThe lack of marketing is shown by the low community metrics, which is not a bad thing. This is a result of the team focusing on the product and not community hype.BitcoinTalk — 442 posts/33 725 viewsFacebook — 2 263 followersTwitter — 5 964Alexa — 704 279ProductNo GitHub/product currently available. This is not a concern because the team has confirmed on telegram that the ICO will not be conducted until they can provide the product. This is a VERY good indicator of the team’s acumen & professional culture. Product first then ask for money, unlike many ICOs.Token MetricsMetrics are not available at this time. The token will be needed to access the platform. Large token holders will have premium benefits such as order priority and discounts. In addition, some trading fees will be paid in OMT.Verdict:Fundamental Investor: Omega One has an all-star team. However, their solution requires more than 4 core members. Omega One understands this as shown in the careers page. The fact that the team will not conduct an ICO until the product is delivered is very reassuring. We recommend signing up for the newsletter and make a final decision once they deliver their product and expand their team.Technical Investor: No information regarding the token metrics and no marketing has been conducted to hype the community. However, exchange tokens have performed very well in the past. Therefore, make sure you sign up for the newsletter to stay up to date.Disclaimer: Our goal is NOT to provide investment advice. We promote projects that can positively affect society and teach our readers how to properly analyze ICO’s. This article is a product of the Alpha Community.