
What Have We Been Up To Since the Celsius Crowdsale?It’s been just over a month since we finished the crowdsale and hit our hardcap of $50 million during a brutal bear market. Like everyone in the crypto world, I’m very happy to see that the market has started to recover and there’s more positive news coming every day. As we get ready for May, I wanted to answer a few questions from the community.I will also be doing another AMA on YouTube later this week. I would love to speak with you, so please join us on Friday May 4th, 12:30 pm EST (16:30 UTC).When exchange?We’ve been getting this question since the day we published the first version of the whitepaper. We’re very aware of the interest in Celsius being listed on exchanges. This is a part of our vision and included in our roadmap, however, for legal, regulatory and other business related reasons, we’re unable to talk about too many specifics at this time. We can tell you that we have a strong list of exchange contenders, and we’re talking to, or will begin conversations with a number of them over the course of 2018. As we firm up our relationships we will share this information as soon as we can.When partners?Our Business Development team, headed by Liz Rabban, has been working feverishly to secure additional partnerships both with major financial institutions and other blockchain affiliated companies. We’ve got a few partnerships and are in the process of finalizing them. Once both teams have signed off on the contracts, we’ll be making an announcement (hopefully in the next few weeks). Stay tuned!When iOS?We submitted the first version of our iOS app back in March and waited weeks to hear any word from Apple. We suspect there’s a special track with added scrutiny for new crypto-related apps being submitted. After multiple back and forths with the Apple team, we were told that they wanted us to add additional disclosures and functionality prior to adding our “borrowing and lending” functionality. We’re working on the next version of the app to re-submit to Apple and hope that it will be approved and in the app store by early June.When product?Keith Baumwald, our CMO, has been working closely with the development team in Belgrade to improve the current version of the app and build out a roadmap for the next 3 months. He will share mockups of the new version of the app soon, as well as a more detailed roadmap where the community will have insights into our progress on a sprint-by-sprint basis.When meet?We will be listing all the upcoming events and travel schedule on our website, so come meet with our team and get some company swag and/or updates on our product and roadmap.Here’s a tentative list of events the Celsius team is scheduled to appear on this month:5/10, New York: Blockchain Tech Summit; I have a keynote address at 5:45 pm and Leah Jonas, our Director of Client Services will be part of a panel discussion starting at 1:30 pm. For more information and tickets: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/blockchain-tech-summit-tickets-439091434305/12, New York: Blockchain Without Borders; Liz Rabban will be appearing on a panel discussion at this event and my team is working hard to get me a speaking engagement here as well. For more information and tickets: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/blockchain-without-borders-summit-2018-tickets-451195497885/13, New York: Women on the Block; Our CFO, Ronit Dvir Bacalu is scheduled to join a panel discussion at 12:30 pm, meanwhile Liz will take her spot on another panel at 1:00 pm. For more information and tickets: https://www.womenontheblock.io/5/15, New York: Benzinga FinTech Awards; We will have a Celsius booth at this event so make sure to definitely show up and meet us here! I will also be on a panel discussion that will commence at 2:42 pm. For more information and tickets: https://benzingafintechawards.com/5/24–25, Amsterdam: The Next Web Conference; This will be my second trip to the Netherlands in two months this year as I hope to give a keynote speech at this event. For more information and tickets: https://thenextweb.com/conference/5/28–29, Berlin: Blockshow Europe; Keith will be participating in a panel discussion at this event to lend some insight about marketing in the crypto space. For more information and tickets: https://blockshoweurope.com/Thank YouOnce again, I want to thank everyone for their support and encouragement over the past few months. I can’t tell you how excited we are to be working on Celsius everyday. Together, we can induct more people into crypto, so please help us in spreading the word.We look forward to hearing from you, so don’t be shy and let us know what you think and what you hear. Special thanks goes out to TokrenN on our Telegram for instigating this post.We need to grow our community and as one of the first to join us, you can help us convince others how to HODL so that we can bring crypto to the next 100 million people.Join the Celsius HODL GangAnd lastly, don’t forget to join me for an AMA this Friday, May 4th at 12:30pm EST (16:30 UTC).