
Move Over Big Banks: These Digital Banking Startups Are Major Competitors!Move over big banks! Cryptocurrencies are shaking up your industry. With the looming elimination of third parties in transaction management, cryptocurrency may change commerce forever. Although this fiery belief is held by many young techies, crypto has a lot to solve before widespread adoption, namely its high volatility, hacking issues, and future uncertainty. For now, the potential for complete consumer adoption and the resulting banking disruption remain questionable. Startups have recognized the inevitable innovation in financial services industry and are ready to lead the charge into new-age banking.The most succesful digital banking startupsLeading the pack in digital banking startups are Atom (UK), Monzo (UK), Starling (UK), N26 (Germany) and Revolut (UK). These companies are leaders in their customer base and growing the industry because of their focus on saving people money on traditional banks fees.Revolut: probably the most famous bank challenger as its CEO Nikolay Storonsky turned his start up value from $350m to a $1.7bn valuation in just 6 months! The competetive advantage is services offered to its users: a multitude of options varying from disposable cards to cryptocurrency exchange. The app is considered to be user-friendly with 24 hour customer service available and control over your account and cards. The app allows 25 fiat currencies to be held and an interbank exchange rate is offered for their exchange. The Revolut team is working hard to be ahead of innovation and give their customers value. For instance, recently Revolut announced plans to launch a metal ‘Platinum’ card that will give people 1% cash back in cryptocurrencies and offered free coding classes for women in London.Atom Bank: This app-only Startup raised the highest amount of funding (approximately $514 million) compared to other challenger banks. Atom Bank’s CEO, Mark Mullen,,commented that the money raised is sufficient capital to build a substantial bank. In less than two years, this digital bank passed over £900 million in deposits. Although this feat is impressive it comes at the cost $42 million loss: following a $23 million loss made in 2016. This loss resulted came from wages and operating costs for building new products and running a fully operational bank. In order to stay competitive Atom offers interest on savings accounts at best market rates of 1,95% and 2.5%. To add insult to injury, paying out interest alone resulted in net interest loss of $1illion.Riding right behind Atom is Tandem Bank. This app analyses customer spending and assists them in making better decisions in terms of managing personal finances and finding better deals on utilities.r. Recently, Tandem bank launched fixed savings accounts with annual interest rates of 1.80% , 2.10% and 2.30% (from 1–3 years fixed term).Starling Bank and Monzo bank offers great flexibility to its customers: Starling is focused on customer spending habits and allows them to impose saving goals and custom security settings: locking your card or restricting actions such as ATM withdrawals, online payments etc. Additionally, Starling’s ‘Marketplace’ supports customers while choosing the best pension, mortgage, and insurance deal from other fintech companies. Monzo bank has implemented full current accounts with ability to receive a salary, make direct debit payments and banks transfers, open overdraft. Also this app facilitates interaction with other users, making it possible to send and request money even from the person who does not have Monzo account (Monzo.me).N26 is based in Berlin and offers similar features as competitors, but has key partnerships that differentiate it. Due to the partnership with Transferwise, N26 supports international transfers into 19 foreign currencies at the mid-market rate. Other benefits include: free five ATM withdrawals each month, travel insurance, purchase protection, extended warranty and protection from mobile phone and ATM theft etc. Although the benefits sound amazing they come at the cost of a premium account:t €5.90/month and the standard mastercard fee is €2.90/month.Key strategies which turn customers away from big banksAttract customers in lower income bracket, especially young people:Digitally literate young people make up the first adopting market. According to PWC 39% of British 18–24 year olds (which is the highest proportion in comparison to the other age groups) viewed a bank’s mobile app as essential when opening a current account. This group is mostly concerned about saving money and are more confident to try new ways of earning money and saving it. To illustrate this point, half of the Monzo bank users are under 30 year old.The digital-only banks offer new ways to save money and monitor your expenses while travelling and sending money globally. Prepaid cards tighten up spending abroad.Additionally, Revolut offers the best exchange rates available to customers through their interbank exchange rates . Major banks, exchange bureaus and the post office have hidden markup fees on it — currency conversion and foreign withdrawal fees tend to be 2–5%; therefore, huge savings can be made using digital only banks. Also free ATM withdrawals are offered but with certain limits.Customers might be also attracted by the possible currency gains as you can lock up your currency on the rate available at that day and earn if your holding currency appreciates. (Revolut)New ways of increasing security and building customer trust:Revolut introduces disposable virtual cards which are disabled forever after performing the transaction. As a proof to this security measure, if a website wants to charge you again, the transaction will fail. This new solution is aimed to prevent criminals from using stolen cards or using their details for purchases.An aded feature is standard location based security with a twist: payments are blocked if the app location does not match with the card location. (Monzo bank, Starling bank, Revolut)Any fraudulent activity might be recognised immediately as notifications are received by an app every time there is some activity to your account (Starling bank, Monzo bank);Improved user experience:It is quite common nowadays to be annoyed by the slow service of the banks. Impatiently waiting for customer service response due to unexpected problems with your bank account or spending hours in the local branch waiting for the appointment with bank clerk is a common occurrence .In contrast, using digital-only banks there is no need for visiting the local bank branch or even turning on computer for specific tasks — all of the services available via mobile, for most of the digitals banks its 24/7 customer service.“It’s for people who live their life on their mobile phone, that’s the primary unifying factor. So if you really really are glued to this thing” — he holds up an iPhone — “then it’s an app that’s designed in the same way that WhatsApp, Citymapper, Uber and Amazon are. (Tom Blomfield, Monzo CEO)Untested profit making techniquesTraditional bank profit making techniques is relatively straightforward: lending customers deposits at higher rate of interest than the cost of the money they lend. However, this requires huge amount of capital and bank challengers chose other ways to generate profit. Firstly, Monzo and others bank challengers want to make money by allowing other Fintech firms to access their customers and offer them their financial services. For each customer, who would accept the offer digital banks would earn a commision. Therefore, ‘Marketplace’ is created ranging from loans and investments to insurance and energy suppliers. Unfortunately, it is often considered to be a high profit margin as many customers might be reluctant to try new financial services or switching it’s supplier. Anne Boden (CEO of Starling Bank) said it would made up a third of Starling revenues as equal proportion from interests of overdrafts income. In contrast, Tom Blomfield (CEO of Monzo bank) expects this to be as the main source of Monzo’s income in the long term and generate more revenue than cost per customer. Another way of generating revenue is offering premium paid accounts which provides far more benefits to its customers than its free accounts. Unfotunately, It is also alleged that these digital banks might struggle to grow profitably, because of rapidly increasing competition and customers reluctance to switch to profit-making app features.This scenario would result in a takeover by other big banks or merge with larger fintech firms.Overcoming a regulation barrier for instant successMost digital banks acquire financial licenses through a Bank Charter, which takes up to 2 years. This was a huge challenge for Atom, Tandem and Starling bank as they had to delay their product launch and missed out opportunity to gain many potential customers. Revolut chose much faster path — by acquiring E-money licence it was able to instantly attract huge amount of customers by rapidly launching their services. This strategy was the best to win the competition for Revolut as they got 1.5m of customers without a charter, spending 2 times less cash than competitors!The advantage of an open bankingOpen banking has been considered a potential threat to ordinary banks as well, because they might be unable to keep pace with rapidly innovating start-ups.From 13 January 2018, open banking has forced the UK’s nine largest banks to share their data with licensed startups (subject to the approval of account holders). More opportunities arised by sharing this data: coordination of transactions from different banks in one place (Monzo), managing your debts, overdrafts, bill payments, getting useful financial advices etc. Challenger banks are using this opportunity to pursue partnerships with other Fintech companies to increase the range of services in the market and aquire more customers.New markets for further growthIn spite of being new entrants in the Fintech market, these challenger banks are seeking further expansion opportunities. Atom bank entered a partnership with German open banking platform Deposit Solutions to gather deposits from the largest Europe’s savings market. Monzo announced plans to expand in the US market due to the cultural similarities in the UK market. N26 also proposed this expansion in addition to the entering the UK market by recruiting a manager to lead “market entry in the UK”. Revolut has also tackled new markets such as US, Singapore and Australia.