
THEKEY Partnership & Post-ICO Services AnnouncementWritten by: Lukas Schor, Lead Research at Argon GroupWe are excited to share with you details on our newly formed partnership with THEKEY. This not only marks a huge milestone for both THEKEY and Argon Group, but also a fundamentally new approach to the ICO advisory service industry.About THEKEYAs the thin line between reality and digital continues to blur, the need for having a sturdy identity verification (IDV) tool is becoming more and more important. In today’s digital world, IDV technology identifies individuals online so that they can use the products/services for which they have already paid. However, lots of tech players and government agencies have failed to unleash the full potential of IDV. That is where THEKEY comes into play, as it will blend IDV tools with cutting-edge blockchain technology.In November 2017, THEKEY launched their Token Sale out of Singapore with the objective of raising $22M. The sale was closed in January 2018 and raised a total of $36M+.THEKEY has access to personal identity data of 210M people in 66 cities, authenticated by the relevant government authorities, making it one of China’s most prominent identity management service providers.The PartnershipTHEKEY understands the journey to a successful raise only begins once the sale has closed.“Money in the bank means you now have serious expectations. Expectations from ICO participants, local and global governments, product users… the list goes on. Conducting a post ICO audit and developing a sound roadmap for all new and existing stakeholders is essential to help mitigate risks while increasing your chances for success substantially.” – Richard McBeath, VP Marketing at Argon GroupArgon Group was engaged to conduct a full audit of the concluded ICO. The initial assessment will include an in-depth review of the sale economics, terms, participant data and key jurisdiction requirements to ensure the sale was compliant and met purchaser requirements.“Argon will conduct a full audit of our token generation event to ensure our sale has been compliant and has met investor requirements.” – THEKEYIntroducing: Post-ICO Services by Argon GroupArgon Group is pioneering an entirely new suite of services to cover the needs of blockchain projects that have successfully completed an ICO.“We strongly believe that an ICO marks the beginning of a journey rather than the end, and we want to support innovative projects on this continuous path so the team can focus on building the technology.”Our post-ICO services include:Token sale audit (token economics, legal & compliance, cryptocurrency storage and security, cryptocurrency conversion and value management)Investor relations (ongoing token reporting requirements and communications)Marketing & PR (investor outreach, strategy & implementation for increased exposure, roadshow, key markets PR, digital communications, strategic adviser review and outreach, industry partnership mapping and outreach)Token exchanges (listings, trading and volume driving)In the coming weeks we will publish more details on our new services and keep you updated on activities related to current and new clients. Please make sure to follow us on Twitter and Medium to receive our future announcements.?? If you enjoyed reading this piece leave us a clap (you can also leave multiple claps of course) or comment below. We are curious to hear your thoughts!Recommended ReadingsICO Market Report (April 2018)Written by: Lukas Schor, Lead Research at Argon Groupmedium.comOn Zero-Knowledge Proofs in BlockchainsWritten by: Lukas Schor of The Argon Groupmedium.comBitcoin Lightning Network — 7 Things You Should KnowWritten by: Lukas Schor of The Argon Groupmedium.com