
Stylocoinhttp://www.stylocoin.comIntroduction>>>Stylocoin (token) is a standard payment solution which will unify the Online Shopping industry &utility bill based on the block chain technology. You have some good times and extraordinary arrangements on this site. Stylocoin (token) has offers, which you can’t avail on different sites. Here you have immense heap of offers and rebates. Stylocoin (token) will tackle all your web based shopping issues. Stylocoin (token) is a site motivated by the shopping business which intends to offer all organizations identified with the business a protected and solid Payment arrangement and web based shopping, to ensure security and limit dismissals in light of the idea of the business.Our vision is where a substantial offer of the online market utilizes one bound together token; Stylocoin (token), for every one of their exchanges here are awesome offers for you. You can do shopping on awesome rebates. Just you need to buy our token from our site or versatile applications you can get more rebates. Our organization has significantly more for you. I have launched a shopping site in future. You can do web based shopping from our shopping website.  You can likewise get markdown on web based shopping by obtaining our Stylocoin (token) .You can get increasingly rebate offer if u has increasingly Stylocoin (token) . On our site, you can likewise pay service bills, simple load and simple paisa by purchasing our coins (this future brandishes just in Pakistan). You will love to shop on our shopping site. As you have expansive accumulation of coins in your Stylocoin (token) wallet you can get awesome rebates. You can do shopping from all finished world through our site. One more prominent thing our site bolster all kind of money, which is awesome issue on other shopping locales. You can do shopping through your visa card, Check card and Ace card however you purchase our token first from trade site like wave’s wallet, Stylocoin (token) site or portable application. You can do web based shopping anyplace from the world and having no cash issue. As our site, bolster all cash. Presently your concern of cash trading has been explained with Stylocoin (token) . You can likewise trade your cash. Moreover, you can trade your dollar and money with our token. You can get markdown up to 50, 30% and 20% percent on various things. You can get rebates with our coins on other shopping destinations like Ali express, Amazon. EBay, Daraz.pk, symbois.pk and AsosStylocoin (token) bolsters every one of the destinations for shopping which has not upheld by different locales. You can likewise download our application from play store in future. You can likewise like our Social page on face book, You Tube, twitter.Stylocoin (token) are an answer of all your internet shopping issues. You can buy everything from our site. You can buy marked and unique beautifiers, dresses house hold apparatus and you can do looking for your children. You can buy toys dresses and significantly more. Not just this on the off chance that you have increasingly Stylocoin (token), you can buy all things on different rebates. You can get rebates on these things up to diverse percent. Presently you can do internet shopping from anyplace effectively and you will have not issue of cash. Stylocoin (token) are an extraordinary token money which help you a great deal in web based shopping and at sensible rates. Every one of the things on our locales are unique and you can benefit rebates on these things utilizing Stylocoin (token) You will love to shop through our Stylocoin (token) and will never frustrate.Mobile application Demo>>>The last bit of the verification framework is the Application. The Application is intended to run on IOS, Android, and Windows telephone/tablet gadgets that help NFC innovation also, will be accessible in the Apple Application Store, Google Play Store, and Windows Store.The Application will interpret the information on the Crypto-Tag TM and the block chain and advise the end-client if an item is credible. As said in the segment, titled “Stylocoin (token) ,” clients must spend Stylocoin (token) in the Application to get validation. GRUPs will likewise be accessible for buy inside the Application. In Figure we have a fundamental UI on how the Application will convey the confirmation to the client and the significant information that will be utilized to check the legitimacy of an item. Picture on the left speaks to a valid thing and the privilege is fake .In Future>>>PAY YOUR BILLS:Easily pay your utility or general bills with company-specific promo codeSHOP ONLINE:Almost all online shops have promo code. From clothing, Shoes, software, themes, Google play store app to, we have it all!SHOP IN-STORE:You can use store-specific promo code to make purchases in stores. Just purchase your desired amount and you’re good to goNO MAXIMUM PURCHASE LIMIT:There is no maximum purchase limit. Buy as much as you want, we’ll deliver them all Using Stylocoin (token) as a payment providerStylocoin (token) wallet>>>We will develop our own Stylocoin (token) wallet which everyone with a Stylocoin (token) account will be able to use. Through the secure Waves based wallet, payments can be made and received.Stylocoin (token) however, can be stored on any wallet which supports waves token. The Stylocoin (token) wallet can be accessed through the Waves network.Security is a top priority for Stylocoin (token) and the wallet will be a reliable and safe unit for cryptographic money. The Stylocoin (token) Wallet will be a desktop application and will become available as an app in native IOS and android.The Stylocoin (token) payment page >>>Stylocoin (token) will offer a totally incorporated Payment framework in the structure of any Shopping site Payment alternatives. Vendors will have the capacity to coordinate their business with Stylocoin (token), customizable Payment page in a simple and easy to use interface which will dispense with any difficulties of working with crypto currencies.The page will be bolstered by all programs and receptive to be seen on cell phones, tablets and some other gadgets. The page will be anything but difficult to incorporate into existing Payment pages and dealers will get specialized assistance from the Stylocoin (token) group if essential. Dealers and purchasers will go through the Payment procedure in an indistinguishable way from they would through any customary online Payment strategy making the procedure consistent and simple for payers and payees.Crypto currency exchange listing>>>Tokens are often simply bought or oversubscribed on varied crypto currency exchange markets when the token sale campaign finishes. The number of exchange markets can grow with the rise within the platform trade turnover and the users’ demand from different countries. Our team is aiming to introduce Stylocoin (token) to more than 5 big international crypto currency exchange markets. It will be doable to exchange Stylocoin (token) for any of fluids crypto currency (BTC, WAVES, and ETH).The Stylocoin (token) are going to be obtainable on the primary exchanges inside few weeks of the end of ICO.Crypto currency exchanges with Which we cooperate>>>Already List:>>>Already List on Waves Decentralized Exchange https://beta.wavesplatform.com/https://waveswallet.io/In process>>>Tidex: https://tidex.comYobit: https://yobit.netSoonBittrex: https://www.bittrex.comBinance: https://www.binance.comHitbtc: https://hitbtc.comReferral program>>>Complete the 5 steps to get 15 Stylocoin (STYLO) for free! Get additional 10 Stylocoin (STYLO) for every Friend you refer! Referred customers will receive additional 5% bonus for the purchase made.The website uses cookies to save the referral information. Referral users just send waves wallet address only waves wallet compatible (beta.wavesplatform.com) recommended.Required condition>>>Subscribe to any Stylocoin (token) account in our social media and follow the news:Twitter: https://goo.gl/2GXX6bTelegram: https://goo.gl/jGgmJ5Face book page: https://goo.gl/DeY8AcYouTube: https://goo.gl/nHqNFn3.5% (700,000) of the total amount of sold Stylocoin (token) will be available for the Bounty campaigns pool. The tokens will be distributed as follows:Bitcointalk.org signature campaign — 140,000 Stylocoin (token)Twitter Referral — 140,000 Stylocoin (token)Face book Referral — 140,000 Stylocoin (token)Telegram Referral — 140,000 Stylocoin (token)YouTube Subscriber — 140,000 Stylocoin (token)Bonuses earned during the campaign will be credited to theParticipant accounts within 2 week after the closing of the Public Token SaleAbout Token >>>Token ID : 5VRTinDkxBi4oYBSWjkijyZtacH3QVa8Q8qPodhvczv6  Token Name : StylocoinSymbol : StyloIssuer : 3PKRFBdyQXcD4Zp42tbBaCd7QXq38vJd9DdTotal supply : 200, 000, 00Platform: : Waves platformToken distribution>>>Total distribution — 200 000 00Stylocoin (token) Team — 10% Team Advisor — 1.5% Referral program 3.5%Reserve Fund — 15%Crowd Sale — 65%All unsold tokens will be reserved for the Team and locked up for 1 year.There will be an aggregate supply of 200, 000, 00 Stylocoin (token) .No more tokens will be issued following ICO and any unsold tokens will be scorched. All subsidizing raised from the token deal will go into the advancement of the Stylocoin (token) stage what’s more, putting our promoting endeavors to help the token achieve the vision we have for it. The tokens created by Stylocoin (token) will be distributed among sectors which will ensure the growth of the company and benefit investors.Fund allocation>>>70% of contributed stores amid pre-ITS and ITS stages will be exchanged into fiat monetary forms, which will be utilized to keep up divisions of the advancement which can’t be paid through cryptographic forms of money right now and to shield the task from digital money unpredictability. The assets will be distributed for the advancement of the undertaking and achieving the objectives we have set keeping in mind the end goal to drive Stylcoin(token) into the best digital currencies and convey the Stylcoin(token) stage as per our guide timing.Funds will be allotted to the accompanying parts:Software development 30%These assets will be allotted for the expenses of building up the Stylocoin (token) stage what not the specialized work which will go into the procedure. This incorporates building up the CRM, wallet, payment page and API.Business improvement 25%These assets will go into developing and enhancing our association with potential accomplices and industry pioneers through expos, special occasions and industry gatherings. The connections we construct will build our customer base and enable our business to thrive.Marketing 35%These assets will be assigned for the expenses of our promoting system, including yet not constrained to marking and brand mindfulness, advertising, advertisement battles, web-based social networking efforts, bulletins, and any methods considered important to extend the brand and achieve our objectives.Operational costs 10%These assets will be utilized to take care of the expenses of our everyday activities which will keep the Stylocoin (token) advancement and brand alive. This incorporates however isn’t constrained to the enlistment, experts who will join the group, office costs and the sky is the limit from there.social >>>Twitter: https://goo.gl/2GXX6bTelegram: https://goo.gl/jGgmJ5Face book page: https://goo.gl/DeY8AcYouTube: https://goo.gl/nHqNFnSteemit: https://goo.gl/DUchf5Medium: https://goo.gl/Lk4rCGEmail: stylocoin58@gmai.comWebsite: http://www.stylocoin.comWhitepaper: http://www.stylocoin.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/Stylocoin-Whitepaper.pdf