
1 in 7!That’s an excitably shouted “ONE IN SEVEN” by the way and not “One in seven factorial”, which latter odds would be nothing to shout about. But one in seven is worth shouting about— at least via this Medium article stub anyway — because it’s the reason for the new, much higher chances of winning with every Etheraffle ticket!A winning, two-match Etheraffle Ticket!The latest smart-contract update that occurred a few weeks ago included amongst its features the logic necessary to begin awarding a prize for this new two-match tier. However the front-end development took longer to put in place. Intrepid blockchain explorers were free to use the new functionality straight away, calling the function manually via any manual method, but the UX would have been lacking. The time taken taken to upgrade the front-end of the ĐApp was fine though since it afforded ample opportunities to test the new smart-contract features were working correctly. And they were.So now that the front-end integration is complete, every 1 in 7 Etheraffle tickets will be a winner! Those odds reflect the chances of matching two numbers to the winning ones drawn, and any such two match wins will be rewarded with a free go via something called the the FreeLOT coupon. Better still, despite the ĐApp update having only just launched, any two-match tickets from Raffle #38 onward will also find FreeLOT coupon claims awaiting them. So be sure to check your past tickets!The FreeLOT coupon is an ERC223 compliant ethereum token with a few extra features that allow the Etheraffle smart-contract to both mint and destroy them. Under the hood, when a FreeLOT win is being claimed, the Etheraffle contract creates one new token and transfers it to the winner’s address. When a user then spends their token by entering a raffle for free, the Etheraffle contract simply destroys it.And so because it’s a standard ethereum token, anybody winning one can do exactly as they please with it. They can be saved for a rainy day, used right away, sent to another wallet, burnt at the 0x address, forgotten about, later remembered . . . but best of all: Used to enter Etheraffle again for free! The FreeLOT coupons have no time limits on their redemption, and will in future be redeemable in other Etheraffle games currently in development. So get playing Etheraffle and take advantage of the now much higher chance of winning both ETH and FreeLOT tokens!