
Transferring money on social media?-Yes,please.Imagine the feasibility of a world where viable tokens that represent money can be transferred from one individual to another on Facebook, Twitter, even via email platforms in seconds. For those that are familiar with cryptocurrencies, you’re probably jumping in your seats. Exciting, right? Seems incredibly quick and easy. For those who aren’t ,you’re probably wondering what I’m going on about. Well,let me explain.It’s unnecessary to stress the importance of social media-about 1/3 of the world population already know how much the invent of the Internet and social media has improved the global system of communication, making traditional methods abstract and obsolete, affording accessibility and communication within seconds,connecting people in different countries with just a click. It is even estimated that in 1 year,by 2019, about 2.77 billion people will be connected to the Internet via social media,which Is a remarkable step up from 2.46 billion recorded in 2017. This growth is attributed to the adoption of smartphones and other devices as well as faster Internet and relatively affordable mobile Internet plans.Cryptocurrency and blockchain technology,however,cannot boast of the same widespread recognition and participation despite its immense benefits and overall refining of the financial technology sector. This may be attributed to the fact that the block chain technology may be too complex for the average man to understand. But not too complex, as it is essentially an electronic transaction processing and record keeping system that allows accumulation accumulation and transfer of money in form of cryptocurrencies and tokens. This system is characterised by incredibly secure,transparent, immutable and swift transactions that are not monitored by traditional banks.The idea to put together these two systems-social media and block chain technology, birthed the SOCIAL WALLET. According to its founders,Social Wallet is “a unique platform where users can send or receive cryptocurrency through multiple social networks needing only the receiver’s social media username”. In other words,it is a platform that facilitates the transfer of tokens from one individual to another without any third party interference, as quickly as sending a message via any social media network such as Facebook. These tokens are called WIRE tokens and can be stored or exchanged with other tokens such as bitcoin and ethereum(ETC). The best part? Social wallet doesn’t even require an innate understanding of block chain networks,or even the intricacies of the transaction,just the receiver’s name,making things incredibly easy to use. It is of course, the first of its type in the blockchain industry and is expected to surpass other money transferring Systems-Western Union,PayPal-all these would be a thing of the past.Not only does Social wallet provide quick and easy transfer of money for individuals,businesses,groups and companies,it also offers the Social Wallet debit card which will offer users a variety of options,to spending,sharing,sending and converting these tokens into your desired currency. An amazing opportunity,if I do say so myself.How does it function? Quite easily,as stressed earlier. The pictorial representation above shows an accurate cascade of steps that social wallet works with. And receiving is just as easy-with the options for use as varied as explained in the below picture.A very exciting concept,Social wallet and WIRE tokens have set out to take the world by storm,revolutionising the ease of business and even educational sectors in a very interesting way. I keep thinking of how easy it would be to access funds,no waiting until weekdays to spend or send money,receiving money in form of tokens which is as safe and as immutable as can be. This system is designed almost completely to perfection,and is taking the blockchain community to the next level. The WIRE tokens are accessible and can be bought at low rates now,using both cash and tokens like bitocin,ethereum and litecoin at the social wallet website https://socialwallet.io/ .Bountyhive username: HaileyM