
Introducing Peter Singer, Coinme Chief Compliance OfficerAs the first licensed bitcoin ATM operator in the United States, we understand the importance of compliance in the cryptocurrency industry. As we continue on our journey of being pioneers in the space we are excited to announce that we have named Peter Singer as our Chief Compliance Officer.Peter Singer, Coinme Chief Compliance OfficerPeter has an MBA in International Business and Finance, a Master of Science in Human Resource Management, the Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist (CAMS) and the Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE) designations, as well as the Senior Professional in Human Resources (SPHR) certification. He has most recently served as the Chief Compliance Officer for GIACT Systems who has processed over 1 billion total transactions for over 1,000 companies including the Red Cross. Previously he served as the Director of Compliance for RealPage, a property management software with over 3.4 million annual transactions, and the Senior Compliance Analyst for Health Markets where he conducted over 100 investigations into insurance agents compliance as well as handling over 100 regulatory and consumer complaints.“For cryptocurrency organizations to succeed in today’s regulatory environment, they must operate from the highest standards of excellence supported by an effective compliance program,” says Neil Bergquist, Coinme co-founder, and CEO. “With his wealth of experience, Peter is the perfect person to help us further our mission of providing fair and equal access to cryptocurrency, not only here in the United States but globally as well. We are thrilled to have him join our team.”“Crypto is the absolute cutting edge of fintech AML, regulatory compliance, and is what everyone is talking about right now,” said Mr. Singer. “I love the challenge and complexity of blockchain, the potential uses, and being part of the group that pioneers a path to making it a trusted way to store and transfer value across the globe.”“When I started the interviewing process with Coinme, I could tell right away that this team was committed to not only bringing a much-needed product to the world in an ethical and aboveboard way but also to each other,” he added. “Everyone holds themselves accountable to each other, to act in the best interest of the company, and I loved the positive approach. The Coinme team is 100% genuine, and you do not find that everywhere.”We value honesty, respect, and keeping customers and their information safe. With Peter’s guidance in staying on top of an ever changing regulatory environment, we can continue working to help, educate, and protect customers.Our vertically integrated network of crypto ATMs, digital wallet, and exchange services provide customers the opportunity to buy, sell and store digital currencies. As a licensed financial services provider, we are committed to protecting our customers and continuing to give the world access to cryptocurrencies.For more information, visit coinme.com or follow Coinme on Twitter.