
Why I love working at Stash InvestStash as a product is all about helping users make smart investments, so it’s no surprise that the company invests back in its employees.As a native New Yorker (so NY that I can’t drive), I consider myself so lucky to work for Stash, an awesome fintech startup in New York City. I had the pleasure of joining the Stash team about 8 months ago, on my birthday. Stash offers all the benefits you would expect like flexible PTO and commuter benefits. The best part was when I was pleasantly surprised to learn that Stash’s family-friendly Medical, Dental, and Vision started right on my first day!Speaking of perks, using my Learning and Development yearly stipend, I attended the 2018 AWWWARDS Design Thinking Conference in Berlin, Germany. The conference recognizes and promotes the talent and innovation of the best developers, designers, and web agencies in the world. As a UX Researcher, it was beneficial to be in the same room as these designers and developers representing innovative perspectives in design.Stash recently launched Women’s Lean in Circles for the female employees, and I have the privilege of facilitating one of the founding circles held at Stash, a bi-weekly group for women at the company to get together and have discussions about our experiences, motivations, and goals. By establishing a work environment where women can join a global community dedicated to helping women achieve their ambition (and totally take over the world), Stash continues to exemplify their commitment their employees.People have the opportunity to add their own voice to the company culture too! This past winter, we held a company-wide fitness challenge after one of our new employees suggested it. Teams won extra points for working out together. At the end of the challenge, the winning teams were presented with Stash branded trophies and medals during a fun celebration. This is just one example of how Stash values their employees as thought leaders and creates an environment for us to thrive!When it comes to thought leadership, Stash doesn’t play around. Test early. Test often. Its okay to fail. This motto is built into the culture. It starts with the co-founders and inspires everyone on the team. There’s nothing like being on a team that pushes the boundaries of traditional finance and iterates together for a good cause.Stash really cares about their employees and it shows because most nights out of the week you’ll catch people staying at work late, having drinks, chatting about how to make the world a better place through Stash.The full list of benefits and perks here: https://www.stashinvest.com/careersStash employees attending AWWWARDS Berlin 2018Smiling in one of our big conference rooms