
WHY COMMUNITY BUILDING IS AN ESSENTIAL PART OF ICO MARKETINGBy Dennis H. LewisBuilding a successful blockchain project starts at the grassroots level. Despite attracting more mainstream attention in 2018, the crypto world is still a closely-knit community of developers, small-scale investors, and supporters that tend to move around in the same online circles. These people serve as ambassadors of the blockchain community, and winning them over on the months leading up to your ICO is essential for ensuring your project generates enough buzz prior to your upcoming launch date.With the Blockchain community growing exponentially everyday, hype tends to spread like wildfire. Engaging with followers online can dramatically expand your reach, in addition to developing brand representatives that promote your project to their friends and family. All of this attention is essential for capturing the attention of high-dollar crypto investors eager to fund the next big idea.How to Build Your Following OrganicallyThe first step towards generating buzz around your blockchain project is to reach out to your target market. This can be done by creating and maintaining an active presence on social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, as well as blogging and sharing content over Medium, Reddit, and LinkedIn. Along with social media engagement, you should focus on publishing informative content that helps readers further understand your project.Many ICO marketing campaigns also use chat programs to create a direct line of communication between their team and supporters. Of these apps, Telegram is by far the most popular for giving real-time ICO updates and answering questions related to your blockchain project. Maintaining a chat group is great for increasing customer engagement and attracting investors, but they do require a lot of upkeep. There needs to be a moderator available at all times to prevent your channel from being flooded with spam and con artists pretending to be team members in order to scam people out of investment money.After you’ve built your initial following, you can use bounty contests to expand your influence even further. Bounties are inventive programs that reward loyal customers when they onboard new members. Projects like OPEN Platform and SuchApp have had experienced significant growth because of their bounty programs.Every Solid Blockchain Project Was Built from the Ground UpThe success of your ICO and blockchain project as a whole depends on the effort you put in engaging with followers. You should be creating meaningful content, answering questions, and participating in crypto-related discussions online every day. Your goal should be to make your followers feel like they’re part of the team. Bounty contests, telegram groups, and social media engagement all help build a community that values your project as much as you value them.There’s a lot that goes into creating the right marketing strategy for your ICO. Trends come and go in the blink of the eye in the blockchain community, which is why it’s important to work with a company with experience helping blockchain projects take off. Visit our website today to learn more about how ICOSuccess can help you with your content and community development campaign.That way, you can get back to doing what matters — developing innovative blockchain solutions.Web | Blog | Twitter | Facebook | Linkedin