
Aryze — Bringing mass adoption of blockchain to DenmarkGo home fiat, you are drunkARYZE is one of the first ICO’s in Denmark. The goal is to tokenize fiat currency (starting with the danish Kroner) and significantly decrease fees in the current financial system. Today a simple payment has to travel through a chain of intermediaries before the money arrives at its destination. Each pit stop in the chain takes a small fee. At some parts in the chain, money might stop moving for two days, namely the weekends. The result is an expensive, slow and inefficient payment system.The above figure pictures a very simple scenario. Consider what an international payment looks like. They are expensive for a reason!Benefits for government, business and consumerIn Denmark 77-95% of all transactions are already digital, so it is a great place to integrate blockchain technology. Consumers are used to paying digitally. Actually, with the solution proposed by ARYZE, consumers won’t know the difference! They‘ll believe that they pay with fiat, but really they are just moving IOU’s in the form of tokens on a blockchain. This all happens seamlessly in the background.At first only businesses and governments will reap the benefits, since consumers think they already pay zero fees in their daily interaction with money. But in fact they finance the above indirectly by the elevated prices of goods and services as well as hidden fees. In time costs of living will drop, paychecks stay the same or even increase and then consumers will feel the difference.Mamma Mia!ARYZE’s main product is an app that allows to users send, receive, and store cryptocurrencies as well as fiat values like eKR, eEUR, and eUSD to any ARYZE user for free. Whenever a fiat value gets deposited to the app, ARYZE will create a linked virtual IOU token corresponding to the stored amount and deposit the amount to the user’s account.The sexy part of their app is its modularity, hence its codename M.A.M.A (Multi Asset Modular App). Users will be able to completely customize the app to fit their needs. The modularity comes in the form of trusted plugins, created by ARYZE partners, businesses and financial institutions. If you shop a lot at H&M, you might wanna download their plugin which allows you to earn, store and consume your H&M loyalty points directly on the app. Have a few too many H&M loyalty points and in desperate need of a cup of coffee? Simply exchange your loyalty points at H&M for loyalty points at Starbucks!Ryze tokensHaving read this far, is your first thought that ARYZE plans to do the above by virtualizing fiat currencies as tokens, exchanging the tokens on a exchange, then paying parties who want fiat with fiat and parties who want cryptocurrency with cryptocurrency, and that this all happens behind the scenes?Then you are a genius, because that is exactly how it is supposed to work. There are of course many details to this, which however are far beyond the scope of this article. Read the whitepaper (details down below) for this info.Fees on the exchange will be paid with Ryze tokens. 50% of the profits will go towards buying back Ryze tokens and burning them, decreasing the supply. If ARYZE gets the blessing of the danish government and becomes widely adopted, volume on the exchange will be very great. Consequently demand for Ryze tokens will remain high while supply is decreasing.Ryze token saleARYZE aims to sell 10,000,000 DKK ($1.65 million / €1.35 million) worth of RYZE tokens in the Private Token Sale. The hard cap is 11,000,000 DKK and the low cap 9,000,000 DKK. The tokens will be allocated to individuals after completion of the private token sale.See the details below for token price, bonus tokens and caps.The ICO is scheduled 6–8 months after the current pre-sale.Whitelist for the pre-sale here: http://ryze.aryze.io/Leaving you to itThis article does not serve as an analysis of ARYZE as an investment, neither should anything mentioned be considered financial advice. My goal was to give the world an introduction to the project as a whole.Since the team behind ARYZE is committed to become as legit as possible and get all the right papers and permissions, their private sale is unorthodox in the blockchain space, and resembles an IPO more than an ICO.The whitepaper is therefore only distributed to at most 150 individuals, including myself. It is not meant to be a public document, so if you are interested in reading it, feel free to send me a message at ostop.developer@gmail.com and I will send you a copy!Join the ARYZE community on social media:Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ARYZEofficial/Telegram: https://web.telegram.org/#/im?p=@ARYZETelegram announcements: https://web.telegram.org/#/im?p=@ARYZENews