
Introducing Blocktrics: Blockchain Intelligence and Analytics PlatformThe Blocktrics Platform is a visual dashboard tool providing clarity and insights into the blockchain ecosystem.Explore And Visualize The Blockchain UniverseAs of May 1, 2018, the cryptocurrency market as a whole has a market cap of over $400 billion. With a rapid addition of new technologies, as well as the accompanied currencies associated with these technologies, comes the need for a dashboard platform to access, analyze, compare, and visualize this information.PROBLEMSVolume: With the aforementioned increase in new blockchains and currencies, there is now an exponential increase in difficulty to accurately track, follow, and analyze data.Trust: The infamous “crypto market crashes..Bitcoin to $1,000,000…HODL to the moon” statements prove that unreliable and sensationalized news dominates headlines, with little if any fundamental analysis taking place.Analysis: There is no central platform for reliable tools and data for market analysis. Useful and real blockchain metrics and data is being obfuscated by media and vanity metrics like market cap. As mentioned above, an accurate and reliable source is crucial for everything from trading to overall market analysis and deep blockchain dynamics.Enter, Blocktrics.The Blocktrics Platform will be a powerful set of analytical tools and resources for the blockchain ecosystem, aiming to help overcome the technical complexities and information obscurity currently besetting this market. Our platform will gather the data of the blockchain universe, compiling all viable blockchains and cryptocurrency data to easily search, access, analyze, compare, call, export and visualize this information. The platform will focus on simplicity of the user experience, while still providing significant depth of coverage for fundamental research, competitor analysis, investment opportunities, company ratings, document filings, regulation, and traditional and crypto financial data. The Blocktrics platform will provide users of every sophistication the ability to easily visualize and understand the blockchain world.SOLUTIONSWe create transparency with a dashboard platform to access, analyze, compare and visualize data from everywhere available in the entire blockchain ecosystemInstant visibility of data and analysis with our huge array of blockchain data. Our data is compiled from blockchain servers around the worldSearch, combine, and transfer data to every environment possible. Create new understanding and insights and capture new opportunities with pre-built visualizations, charts, comparisons, and statistics.*Search for investment opportunities, competitors, industries, counter-parties, trade partners, regulations, doc filings, capital flows, government investigations, bad players, individuals or company leadership.*Create and Find Data Visualization with editable statistical models for deep analysis. Visualize the reach and structure of the thousands of blockchain networks. Chart the the decentralized and distributed systems around the world, and understand the true size/scope of mining organzation and how they operate. Research the penetration of blockchain technology industry by industry.*Centralized Document and News search. Curated and trusted sources. Collaborate research with notes, highlights, charts, and more. Export any data directly to other application. Intelligent and contextualized search enables better search results and saves you time.*Alternate and Customized Data: If you’d like, Bring Your Own Data! If you have other sources of data that you want to compare (think global equities, debt, CDS, etc) for additional analysis, the Blocktrics Platform will make comparisons easier.Teamwork Makes The Dream Work: An IntroductionBlocktrics prides itself on building out an extremely experienced team combined of seasoned professionals in the financial, tech, and data science sectors. Our core team represents 55 years experience of hybrid talent from backgrounds at MIT, Cisco Systems, Adobe, and Goldman Sachs.CAMERON COX: FOUNDERE-comm entrepreneur, data systems consultant, and institutional asset manager. Cameron has built successful startups and managed enterprise teams at Cisco Systems. He holds an MBA from the University of Utah.ADAM COX: CO-FOUNDERAn experienced entrepreneur and enterprise strategist, Adam was recently at Adobe as Head of Strategy for Marketing Cloud Platform Delivery. As a serial entrepreneur, he’s successfully built and exited multiple companies. He earned his MBA from MIT.RYAN KOWALK: HEAD OF DATA PLATFORMOur resident data genius, Ryan led enterprise-wide data initiatives in the Adobe Digital Marketing Cloud’s highly complex environment. He has extensive experience in big data, dashboards, and blockchain technology. Ryan earned his BS in Info Sys from BYU.JEFF HOLMBERG: CHIEF OF OPERATIONSA former investment banker, Jeff recently successfully exited his fantasy sports analytics company. He’s an alum of Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch, and earned degrees in business and economics from Fordham University.Join Our Community!We love to hear feedback, insights, and suggestions! Give us a follow on any of our media outlets below and feel free to have an open discussion with our team members as we develop. Updates on our ICO, token, and updated roadmap will follow soon!TwitterTelegramFacebookLinkedInBlocktrics WebsiteEmail: info@blocktrics.ioThanks,The Blocktrics Team