
The Chronicled Network and Protocols, An OverviewA few Chronicled team members (and our mascot) at our office in San Francisco.Lately, I’ve been thinking a lot about how far Chronicled has come since our founding in 2014.We’ve spent those four years working hard — iterating and building solutions that really resonate with people.We’ve had the opportunity to work with major industries like pharmaceuticals and global commodities, bringing previously disparate companies, individuals, and systems together to work toward aligning interests. And, more generally, creating a trusted supply chain infrastructure layer that can serve entire industries.But we’ve also fundamentally changed the working relationships between supply chain players, setting the standards for the future and facilitating participation on a blockchain.It’s been a wild four years, and we’re well on our way to revolutionizing global trade with blockchain-based supply chain protocols.So, l just want to take a moment to look back to where we started — and ahead to where we’re going.Where We BeganChronicled started with an idea: We wanted to find a way to register physical assets on a blockchain in order to verify their identities.Once we could do that, we could create a system for register events — events like verify authenticity, transfer of custody, invoicing and purchase order submissions, and fulfillment.The network we built to bring this idea to life has blockchain as its base layer. On top of that base are the protocols, or what we call smart contracts. Think of them as little bits of functionality.There are many kinds of different protocols. One is for registering an asset. Another is for verifying identity of an asset. Another is to transfer the asset and send a confirmation that it’s been received by the second party. That in turn can be expanded to a protocol for proof of custody.All of this has been done before with centralized systems. But it hasn’t been done for decentralized systems.We’re rebuilding global supply chain infrastructure within the context of a new decentralized paradigm.But we’re combining our supply chain protocol with prepackaged smart contracts that companies can integrate with. Chronicled acts as the network operator, and our goal is to facilitate all of these supply chain transactions, becoming the backbone for the global economy.Why Our Solution Is UniqueWe realized early on that companies require data privacy, even when a technology is as revolutionary as blockchain.Companies inventory and business data are key parts of what helps them stay competitive. Without a way to ensure data privacy, companies simply would not use blockchain.We spent the first half of 2017 solving the data privacy problem. And after exploring dozens of options, we settled on a solution — zk-SNARK technology.Zk-SNARK is a zero-knowledge proof that allows two parties to validate that a given statement or event is true, without providing information beyond the mathematical proof.For example, Company A registers Object A on blockchain to prove that they are in possession of Object A. Why? Perhaps they would like to collateralize it. Maybe they need to prove this to a regulator. But Company A doesn’t want Companies B,C,D, and E — who are also on the network — to see the details of the transaction or that they own Object A.zk-SNARKs allow Company A to keep the data associated with that transaction private, while proving to the lender or regulator that Object A exists. To see how this plays out in the real world, replace “Object A” with “Inventory Data.”Companies want to leverage the benefits of a blockchain-based network without revealing the contents of sensitive information or competitive business intelligence.This was a key development that really opened the door to widespread adoption among many industries.Without data privacy, enterprises were slow to adopt the technology beyond pilots and proof of concepts. With the data privacy element Chronicled built into our system, blockchain has the potential to fundamentally change the way supply chains operate and their participants interact.Where We’re HeadedAt the moment, our biggest market verticals are pharmaceuticals, commodities, and precious metals and minerals.Pharma and commodities have strong regulatory drivers, providing the perfect opportunity to align companies around a single, interoperable solution.We began with products like pharmaceuticals whose provenance and tracking are a matter of life and death. But as the cost falls, more industries are beginning to see blockchain as their most viable solution.Supply chains in food, luxury goods, and consumer electronics all stand to benefit in the near future.We’ve maintained the lead in our space, but that success is ultimately due to our technology and our approach. We’ve taken deep dives into the markets. Rather than going wide — trying to capture everyone and build something for everything — we’re catering to specific industries and maintaining an open network that will be agnostic to the assets we’re registering and the industries we’re working with.It’s not about just proving that our solutions can work with a few players. It’s about reaching a critical mass to realize the full potential of network effects and solutions built on top of the network.It’s about understanding human behavior and dynamics — what people need in order to participate in a technology-enabled ecosystem. Which why we see the value of getting industry buy-in.This approach has allowed us to bring together entire industries on blockchain, and it’s the approach that’s propelling us into a new blockchain-enabled supply chain solution.