
HOW IT WORKSDago-mining is the first self-sufficient renewable energy mine.In Iceland, the consumption of electricity equaled and will soon outpace the consumption of the entire population. This will inevitably lead companies supplying energy, increasing production with new power plants with substantial investments and an inevitable impact on costs. All companies supplying energy are companies, must have profits to continue their business, an increase in market demand implies an increase in the price of the produced well. More demand, more price increase, to overcome the difficulty of calculation, mining farms increase the power of hash power, thus increasing the demand for energy, no matter if they are pools made up of many small or medium Miners, however, you need more energy. In 2016, the KNC Miner in Sweden declared bankruptcy, citing various excuses, but the basis of the bankruptcy is an increase in extraction costs (halving the Bitcoin premium from 50 to 25). In just over 1 year there will be a new cut of the premium at 12.5 BTC per block. Increased energy costs (more pollution) and having the premium are the challenges to be faced.Dago Mining has decided to produce the energy it will use for mining with solar thermal concentration photovoltaics, and the storage of energy (heat and electricity) in an ecological way that will give us the possibility of mining even at night. The technologies are already tested and widely used. We intend to use, for the construction of plants, companies with many years of experience in the sector and with a very high degree of know-how. Some members of our team still collaborate in the construction of power stations and their maintenance. The various parts that make up the power plant have durations estimated in 20 years, this gives us the opportunity to plan the low maintenance they need and then to predict the costs. We can exponentially increase the power of Hash Power without impacting the ecosystem, using increasingly powerful refrigerated in-immersion hardware to increase both power and durability, while maintaining extraction capacity at high levels. The chosen location is a region of a European state, where we are contracting to be included in a no tax zone, and a 4% tax burden. We can also participate in non-repayable loans, issued by the same Region, the State and the European Community for renewable energy sources.