
Robin8 Bi-Weekly Update of April 19thWelcome to Robin8 Biweekly Update of 5th Apr. to 19th Apr. Learn about our development progress and latest news from this update brought to you by the Robin8 team.Blockchain DevelopmentThe Robin8 blockchain development team has been working on the following functions:Rewriting code of API Bridge on Python. Moving out some logical functions like verify and encrypt from the bridge to Profile Management System (30% done).• Creating DB and program interfaces for Profile Management System (30% done)• Storage module for PMS with one driver — MongoDB (100% done)• Developing PMS architecture (100% done)• Abstract functions and classes (100% done)• Architecture of Profile Management System will correspond to the presented scheme:The profile management system is a critical focus in our contribution to the blockchain technology space. We’re actively collaborating and having conversations with other blockchain companies to implement our profile management system once it is completed at the end of this month.Operations and MarketingThe Robin8 Operations and Marketing team have welcomed a new member, our Global COO, we’ve attended the World Blockchain Forum in Dubai, WPP Stream Indonesia, and are organizing a Korea meetup at the end of the month.Joe Sticca Appointed as Robin8 Global COORobin8 recently announced Joe Sticca as our Global COO. Joe has worked at Accenture as a Manager, served as CIO at Talent Partners, SVP & Chief Digital Product Officer and Head of Technology for WorldNow, CIO of Gems Education, and CIO of True Interaction.With his world-class technical aptitude, critical business and communications skills, Joe can rapidly drive change, engage with shareholders and surpass business objectives. He will help Robin8 to scale our innovative strategy and bring our business to the next level.Robin8 CEO Miranda Tan Spoke at Dubai World Blockchain ForumRobin8 CEO and Co-founder, Miranda Tan, attended the World Blockchain Forum held in Dubai from 4/16–4/17.World Blockchain Forum is the longest running blockchain technology conference in Dubai. Each year, leading CEOs, founders, innovators and investors in the blockchain and cryptocurrency space gather there. World-leading entrepreneurs, corporate visionaries and tech luminaries are invited as speakers and panelists to share their insights.At World Blockchain Forum Miranda met many companies that Robin8 will be partnering with to integrate our profile management system.Robin8 CEO Attending the WPP Stream Indonesia 2018WPP Stream Indonesia is held in Yogyakarta from 19th Apr. to 21th April.Miranda spoke on the first day at the event presenting about Robin8 PUT and our profile management system.WPP Stream Indonesia is one of the world’s leading technology events. It brings together 300 brands and technology companies from across the region. During the event, there will be over one hundred discussion sessions, ignite talks (15 slides in 15 seconds), a pitch show, a gadget show, a tech lab, digital art, cooking, sport, film screenings and more.Robin8 Seoul Meetup Coming SoonRobin8 is organizing a blockchain meetup in Seoul on 28th Apr. It will bring together over 100 industry experts and visionaries to exchange ideas on the development of blockchain industry. This meetup will also cover topics including Robin8 profile management system. Robin8 is planning to organize more meetups across the world including HK, Singapore, Japan along with our patners. Stay tuned!Robin8 Android Global App Being ImprovedRobin8 has recently launched our English global app in Android store. We hope that you have downloaded it. We’re actively adding functionalities to the app and plan to develop a wallet along with other functions to allow for the processing of crypto payments. Additionally, we have over 20 campaigns that users can participate in to earn money. Download the app the start to monetize your influence!We are also actively working on getting the iOS version listed in Apple Store. Stay tuned for our latest updates!This past week we began an initiative to produce weekly content to address industry challenges, opportunities, and how Robin8 products are solutions to existing problems as well as the value we will provide. Robin8 will be making some major announcements later this month.Thank you for your continued support. We will continue to work hard and show our commitment to the Robin8 PUT community.To keep up with Robin8, follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, and Telegram.Visit us on on our website.