
WHY TRADING ON HUOBI EARNS MORE PROFIT FOR YOUBased in Singapore, Huobi Pro is among the top three cryptocurrency exchanges; with 190,000 BTC exchanged across more than 103 markets by traders in more than 130 countries over the world, in the past 24 hours alone.In order to stand out among the competition, cryptocurrency exchanges have to go the extra mile to offer incentives to attract and retain traders. One of the incentives of using Huobi Pro is their reduced transaction fees which any trader can easily take advantage of. To be able to take advantage of cheaper trading fees in Huobi Pro, you need a combination of Huobi Point Cards, Huobi VIPs and the Super Rebates Program.What are Huobi Point Cards?Huobi Point Cards are pre-paid cards for trading charges, translating to $1 per point. The difference between the value you pay upon purchasing a Huobi Point card tier versus the actual points on the card, with the value increasing as you increase the size of the tier, equates to reduced fee deductions on the cryptocurrency exchange’s trading fees, saving traders’ a lot of money.Where to buy Huobi Point Cards?Traders registered on Huobi can make purchases for Huobi Point Cards from https://www.huobi.pro/ht/points/.Interestingly, the evolution of Huobi Point Card System has since created a parallel unofficial OTC market. When Huobi Tokens were originally given out for free, a good number of investors purchased large amounts of points packages to earn lots of HTs.Huobi Token(HT) is the native exchange token of Huobi Pro.There is no limit on the amount of Huobi Point Cards that a trader can own, nor transfer allowing traders to greatly benefit. Since, social networks on telegram have been established where you can now be able to purchase Huobi Point Cards up to 75% cheaper, earning traders a double discount in the process.What is the Super Rebates Program?Super Rebates Program allows traders to refer other traders; friends, family or even themselves(yes, you can refer yourself by creating a secondary account under your main account) and earn rewards from the referrals’ transaction fees. You do this by sharing your referral link to new traders to use to sign up at Huobi.Super Rebates earn 30% of all the transaction fees that their referrals have to pay Huobi. You can earn Super Rebates rewards for the first 3 months since signup. Your unique referral link can be found in your account details in your profile details.Huobi VIPsYou can pay a monthly fee of Huobi Tokens to become a Huobi VIP, and thereby enjoy discounted trading fees. There are five VIP ranks, each tier offering discount ranging between 10% — 15%.You can become a VIP today by using the Become a VIP button in account details on Huobi Pro.So, how does this lower your transaction fees?Let’s take a hypothetical trade of $5000. A normal user on Huobi is charged 0.2% transaction fee. There are two scenarios through which a trader can maximise their profit using the previously Huobi VIPs, Huobi Point Card system and Super Rebates Program.AHere, you can combine VIP(can get tiered discounts ranging from 10% to 50% when they order VIP using HT) and point packages as well as create referral accounts under your main account to earn rebates for yourself. Here you can find a breakdown on VIP discount https://huobiglobal.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360000190611-VIP-Discount-ExampleFor a trade of USDT5,000.-Normal transaction fee is USDT10 or 0.2%-VIP2 transaction fee is USDT8 i.e. 8 points(there are multiple VIP ranks)-If Points are purchased on OTC market -> actual cost for this transaction is USDT8 x 0.25 = USDT2 or 0.04%!-Addition of Super Rebate -> net cost of USDT1.4 or 0.028%*Note: VIP users have to log a minimum trading volume to breakeven as they need to factor cost of VIP package.BFor the second scenario, scrap step 2, the VIP transaction fee from scenario A.For the same transaction, the net cost comes to USDT1.75 or 0.035%!In scenario A, transaction fees have reduced by close to 90% from USDT10 to USDT1.4 while in B from USDT10 to USDT1.75. This is what makes Huobi’s transaction fees stand out above the competitors.ConclusionHuobi Pro extends goodwill to its traders beyond Huobi Point Cards. Through perks such as rewards accruing to traders having Huobi tokens in their portfolio, traders can get to benefit more from Huobi’s success, unlike any other exchange. The totality of benefits that traders derive from Huobi Pro, make it the best cryptocurrency exchange to use.OTC point card telegram groups can be found here:Chinese version: https://t.me/joinchat/G6O76w5BEyjfnYY6UbIZXAEnglish telegram group: https://t.me/hbpointcardotc