
The Youthia Protocol NetworkYouthia: The Protocol Network for Youth CommerceYouthia is the world’s first decentralized youth economy being built from the world’s youngest continent, Africa. With a GDP in excess of $2 trillion and an exploding middle class of over 313 million consumers, Africa’s labour force is forecasted to be 382 million expected to grow to over 500 million by 2020. More importantly, Africa has the youngest population in the world, with the rest of the world aging rapidly.There are millions upon millions of profitable youth economic activity that is locked out of mainstream structures. Youthia aims to take on this bull of a market and drive significant economic growth through a new economic order. The Youthia Protocol built on blockchain captures this economic activity, aggregates and organizes it, and then directs it into a protocol network. This youth commerce is powered by the algorithm of Verifiable Markets, where the exchange of a product or service between a Youthian (a youth entrepreneur on the network) and a Customer, is verifiable by both users and Nodes. Nodes play a critical role in governing and protecting the network, while simultaneously bridging the gap between the online and offline world. A unique function that other Nodes of other networks do not have.The Youthia Protocol is a mathematical framework that has little room for human error, to build the most important and profitable economy of the future, the youth, without any interference from intermediaries, drive local-level value and wealth, and allows greater control over user-generated data. The core component of the network is the youth hub, that serves as the backbone of the Youthia Economy. Production and consumption layers are improved as well as seamlessly combined into one place. Because Africa is a mobile-first, mobile-web and mobile-only continent, Youthia is focused on a mobile-driven decentralized protocol network that runs on any decent mobile phone to connect to the emerging economy and help run it on autopilot, while being incentivized, to make progress predictable. The Afro (AFR) is the token-fuel and helps drive massive network ownership effects to build a self-sustaining, self-healing and self-thriving system that anyone can rely on.  As an AFR token holder, you have an opportunity to co-own and co-create the economy of the future and benefit from a $500 billion behemoth market. Youthia is converting its fast-growing network of youth entrepreneurs, which is expanding by 5% per week, to an algorithmic market. AFR token holders from anywhere in the world can join a current user base of over 2156. The Token Sale is COMING SOON and you don’t want to miss this timely, unique opportunity. Join the revolution!Youthia.co ✌?