
Alphacat Report - Mid-month of AprilDear Alphacats!As part of our efforts to be transparent and communicate regularly with our community, we are pleased to share this mid-month report, which includes our progress during these last two weeks and our outlook for the future.Branding and Community2018.04.17 Alphacat’s introduction video begins production. It will be released along with our new official website.2018.04.18 Dr. Liang Li — a well-known global fintech expert — joins the Alphacat team as Director of our U.S.-based laboratory.Dr. Liang Li has joined Alphacat’s Research & Development (R&D) laboratory in the United States and will focus on “FinTech and Crypto assets” research. This includes the R&D of Alphacat’s core financial engines. the core algorithm construction of AI prediction engines, big data analysis and the processing of cryptocurrencies, core investment strategies, and other related technologies (such as automated trading).2018.04.20 A handy guide on adding Alphacat tokens to the Neo wallet is published.The Neo wallet’s supported ACAT include: O3, NEO-GUI, Neon Wallet, Morpheus Wallet, NEO Tracker, and OTCGO.Reference: https://medium.com/@AlphacatGlobal/adding-the-alphacat-token-to-your-neo-wallet-a-handy-guide-12b39d84ec4a2018.04.23 Alphacat’s Whitepaper is updated to version 1.5.0, and will be released on our new official website.The new version of our Whitepaper will be more detailed and provide a clear introduction to Alphacat, it will also include a new version of our roadmap.2018.04.26 Alphacat’s Daily Forecasting Service begins its second round of user testing.The first product used by the ACAT prediction engine, “BTC Daily Forecasting”, has undergone small-scale testing and has the support of its users. The Alphacat team is also working on ETH, NEO, and EOS daily forecasting products. The beta versions are expected to be launched between May and July.Reference: https://medium.com/@AlphacatGlobal/eth-neo-eos-daily-forecasting-coming-soon-1995628b38812018.04.27 An updated version of the Alphacat Roadmap is completed and will be released on our new official website.The new roadmap re-sorts the timeline of development for each product, and refines the development roadmap for each product category.A segment of our new roadmapExchange2018.04.24 The ACAT token listing date on HitBTC exchange is delayed.HitBTC exchange integration is currently in progress. The exact date of the listing will be announced upon the official confirmation of the exchange. More exchanges are in negotiation. We will announce further status updates as soon as possible.Product Development2018.04.24 The initial design draft of the ACAT Store homepage is completed.The Alphacat team invited the Alphacat community to vote on the design of Alphacat’s store. According to the voting results and user suggestions, the Alphacat team is working to improve the design.2018.04.26 The beta versions of ETH, NEO, and EOS Daily Forecasting are expected to be launched between May and July.2018.04.26 The API database is undergoing internal testing.Based on noted problems, we fixed bugs and improved performance.2018.04.28 The core algorithm for Real-time Forecasting of cryptocurrency is updated to version 3.0.This version modifies the AI training and forecasting algorithm, and reduces the average rate of forecasting errors.