
OWN YOUR HEALTH AS SHIVOM MAKES YOU THE SOLE MODERATOR OF YOUR GENOMICSFifteen years ago, the Human Genome Project, which was led at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by the National Human Genome Research Institute, produced a very high-quality version of the human genome sequence that is freely available in public databases. The resultant was a “representative" or generic sequence as the sequence is not that of one person, but is a composite derived from several individuals. However, thermometer was kept anonymous such that the DNA donors, more blood samples (nearly 100) were collected from volunteers than were used, and no names were attached to the samples that were analyzed. Thus, not even the donors knew whether their samples were actually used. The Human Genome Project was designed to generate a resource that could be used for a broad range of biomedical studies. Through studies, genomic medicine can enhance the understanding and treatment of as many as 7,000 rare diseases, alongside cancers, complex and long-term disease such as cardiovascular and neurodegenerative conditions, and infections. To further understand the significance of genomics; studies has proven that, virtually every human ailment has some basis in our genes. Genomic sequencing provides many benefits which includes Identifying the best course of care for patients with a particular condition, prevention of disease in healthy individuals, prediction of disease risk, disease diagnosis, treatment, including choice of most effective medication and dosage, disease prognosis, identifying new drug targets. Although genomic data has proven to be significantly important to medicine, the world faced with the problem of getting small groups of people to study in clinical trials. This limit the treatment options for patients.With the few said about genomics, consider a prospective view of genomics where genomic data becomes ubiquitous, with its insights for enhancing healthcare securely available and accessible to all; SHIVOM envisions this future to create a global platform which works on principles of collaboration, openness, integrity, security, and informed choice for all individuals. SHIVOM aims to create the largest genomic data-hub on the planet where contributors own their genomic data, the right to access it, and the opportunity to share or sell it. Thinking of how Shivom could make this possible! Shivom got a better way. Shivom is set to pioneer the creation of a revolutionary medical genomics ecosystem as it brings together two revolutionary technologies, genomics, and blockchain; this is to open up healthcare opportunities for all. Shivom offers the first ever integrated solution for patients and genome data donors where everybody will be able to have their genome sequenced and securely stored. This ecosystem will provide an open web-marketplace for other providers such as pharmaceuticals, research organizations, governments, patient-support groups and insurance companies to add their apps and services, alongside genomic data analytics and personalized medicine. We will additionally build a state-of-the art and not-for-profit drug discovery and precision medicine. organization.BENEFITS OF SHIVOM To make the direct-to-consumer business more open, fair, and beneficial to all users, the Shivom platform uses blockchain technology to create a disruptive genomics ecosystem. It ensures data is owned by the data donors themselves. It ensures a transparent and secure bridge to organizations interested in using that data.• Genome data donors own their data and access rights• Donors gain rewards for sharing their genomic data on the blockchain by selling access rights directly to third party institutions such as pharmaceutical companies• Pharmaceutical companies use the Shivom platform to refine drug development• Shivom users have full and fine-grained control of who can access the data even after a third party institution has had access to it• Patients get personalized health, well-being, and lifestyle information.• A dynamic ecosystem is created and continuously refined in which the community can identify and remove potential health roadblocks before they become serious.SECURITY OF GENOMIC DATA WITH SHIVOMSafety of ones genomic data is guaranteed with Shivom with the help of Blockchain technology. Blockchain technology is our tech partner of choice because it is able to address trust issues, including patient consent, data ownership, data integrity, and authentication. Blockchain can also manage complex data rights and allow fine-grained access using smart contracts.TOKEN SALES AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE OMIX TOKENS BY SHIVOMShivom is set to distribute 3 billion OMIX Tokens worldwide. Fo the ICO Token Sale 990 million OMIX Tokens will be sold. Shivom is on the verge of going viral with ICO Token sales. This is evident of the fact that;*Soft Cap – 15 million USD ( Already achieved).* Hard Cap – 35 million USD.Buy your token here – https://tokensale.shivom.io/users/signupUSE OF PROCEEDSTHE TEAM BEHIND SHIVOMDr. Axel Schumacher Co-Founder & CEOPh.D. in Genetics, over 20 years of R&D leadership experience in genomics, epigenetics, biomarker discovery, Bio-IT, aging & longevity.Sally Eaves Co-Founder & CMOExperienced Chief Technology Officer, Top 10 blockchain influencer, practicing Professor of FinTech, Global Strategic Advisor, and member of the Forbes Technology Council.Gourish Singla Co-Founder & COOSerial Entrepreneur. Background in investment banking and wealth management. COO for the #4 company in the digital health space. Single-handedly established a unit and drove it $35 million revenue.Per Lind Co-Founder & CSOEx-IOTA foundation. Per is an advisor to several governments. He is an excellent innovator and strategist.Henry Ines Chief Innovation OfficerGlobal executive with extensive venture capital, cross-border advisory, corporate finance and entrepreneur experiences. As an investor, he focuses on FinTech / blockchain, frontier technologies and ventures based on his collective VC experiences to date.Akash Gaurav Co-Founder & CTOBlockchain expert, started India’s first blockchain company, Auxesis Group (Top 100 blockchain companies), Blockchain Lab, India, and is an advisor to the blockchain startup Cashaa ($15 million raised).For more information, reach us on the following sites: Website: www.shivom.io Email: info@shivom.io Facebook: http://facebook.com/projectshivom Twitter: http://twitter.com/projectshivomLinkedIn http://linkedin.com/company/18302733/Instagram: http://instagram.com/projectshivom Medium: http://medium.com/@projectshivom AuthorshipBitcointalk username: STORMYBLUEBitcoin profile address https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1882444