
Venezuela’s Petro Cryptocurrency: A Closer LookVenezuela launched its so-called “oil-backed” cryptocurrency the petro (PTR) in February 2018 to address the ongoing bolivar currency crisis and circumvent recent U.S. financial sanctions. Maduro’s government heralded PTR as the “world’s first sovereign cryptocurrency” and the beginning of the end of U.S. financial hegemony. However, these claims fall flat under closer inspection, particularly surrounding PTRs use of the NEM blockchain, its questionable relationship to the price of oil, and its lack of transparency.First, the PTR is not an intrinsic cryptocurrency or “token” on its own blockchain like Bitcoin or Ethereum. Instead, the PTR is a labeled token, or “mosaic,” on the public NEM blockchain. As a NEM mosaic, PTRs only exists as a ledger note on a transaction of XEM, the NEM blockchain’s intrinsic token. Everytime a transaction of PTR occurs, traders are essentially trading only a portion of the PTR-labeled XEM, with transaction fees paid in unlabeled XEM. Thus, the integrity of PTRs rests completely on the credibility of the NEM blockchain and requires, at some level, a separate cryptocurrency to pay for its transactions.Even more worrisome is the NEM blockchain itself. NEM is a relatively new blockchain developed by an unknown developer and differs from Bitcoin and other decentralized blockchains by using a proof-of-stake (PoS) mechanism to validate transactions instead of proof-of-work (PoW). PoS differs from PoW by requiring validation nodes to hold a high number of NEM cryptocurrency, or XEM, in reserve before validating transactions and receiving a transaction fee paid in XEM. PoS incentivizes nodes to publish only valid transactions in fear of reducing the market value of their reserve XEM. PoS also does not require the high level of energy-intensive computations used in PoW systems. However, if a PoS mechanism is not implemented properly, validating nodes can become centralized in the hands of a small number of early adopters, risking the overall integrity of the blockchain. Given that the NEM source code is not publically available and that all XEM were “premined” by the NEM Foundation, there is no obvious guarantee that such centralization has not happened already. Furthermore, a recent Times Magazine investigation found that the NEM Foundation is linked closely to the Russian government, presuming many of the validation nodes could be under the possible influence of Russia or its allies. So, is the PTR a sovereign cryptocurrency? Not if it is under the control of a foreign government.Second, the PTR isn’t an oil-backed “currency” — it is an oil futures contract, at best. Mainstream economists believe that there are three criteria for an object to claim “currency” status: it must be 1) a unit of account; 2) a secure store of value; and 3) a medium of exchange. PTRs are not yet used, so one can easily refute claims to the first and third criteria. As for the second, Maduro claims that the value of PTRs are pegged to the market price of oil and can be exchanged 1-for-1 with a barrel of oil. While pegging the PTR to the price of oil may provide a relatively secure store of value, this only holds true if the promise to exchange PTRs for oil is credible — which is doubtful given the Venezuelan National Assembly announced the PTR illegal earlier this year.Finally, many point to the transparency of blockchains in support of Venezuela’s move toward cryptocurrency. However, while PTR transactions are, in fact, transparent and auditable on the NEM blockchain, Maduro’s recent claim that the government sold $5 billion of PTRs is not corroborated by the NEM blockchain. Before April 26, 2017, only six wallets and less than 10 transactions associated with PTRs were visible on the NEM blockchain, and all PTRs were held in a single wallet. Since then, many new transactions have occurred, with all “ve.ptr” and “petro.presale_trasfer” moasics transferred to another wallet, as well as many other transactions containing “secret” assets. (You can explore the petro-related mosaics on your own here and here) The confusing lack of clarity surrounding the transactions mean one of two things: a) PTRs exist on the NEM blockchain but are largely transacted off-chain on another, private ledger; or b) Maduro has received payments totalling $5 billion but not yet provided investors with the PTR tokens. Either way, the situation is anything but transparent and provides little credibility to the PTR or Maduro’s administration.Most discussion surrounding PTR (and Bitcoin) are focused on whether or not it is a scam. While the information above definitely supports that conclusion, the current discussion distracts from the transformative potential of cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology, both positive and negative. Venezuela probably won’t succeed in its cryptocurrency endeavour, but another, more adept country (or group of countries) might, and what that means for global finance and the U.S. dollar system should be taken more seriously by academics and policymakers, alike.