
Shrimpy’s Demo Shows the Future of Crypto InvestingHere at Shrimpy we have a big vision. We are going to change the way people invest in cryptocurrency. This will happen by providing a free platform where you can easily deposit, diversify, and manage your crypto portfolio. Investing in cryptocurrencies will no longer be limited to those who understand the technology. Every person who wishes to take advantage of this emerging asset class will be able to easily create a competitive portfolio within minutes. Then, using simple strategies like rebalancing, your portfolio will be able to generate better returns than buy and hold. This will promote the adoption of cryptocurrencies by breaking down the barriers to enter the crypto market.Learn more about rebalancing from our previous blog post:Portfolio Rebalancing for CryptocurrencyPortfolio rebalancing is a strategy that has been used by investors for decades. First, an investor must determine how…hackernoon.comExperiment with different portfolios to see the power of rebalancing:Shrimpy outperformed holding by 97%!Check out how well your crypto portfolio would have done with Shrimpywww.shrimpy.ioShrimpyShrimpy is going to be the easiest way to invest in cryptocurrencies. We may not be there yet, but we are getting closer. The current website allows you to rebalance and manage your portfolio which is currently being maintained on third party exchanges. With a simple point and click interface, you can quickly select allocations for your portfolio, pick a rebalance period, and monitor the performance over time. The best part is that Shrimpy is free to use!MonitorThe first thing you will notice when entering the Shrimpy demo is the clean dashboard. This is the main tab where you spend most of your time monitoring your portfolio. The top card is the portfolio value over the period that can be selected on the right side of the card. The bottom left card will show your portfolio, and on hover, the percent of each asset in your portfolio. When you want to rebalance, click the “Rebalance Now” button to instantly rebalance your portfolio. Finally, on the bottom right, you will be able to see your asset summary. This is simply a list of the assets currently in your portfolio and their performance over the last 24 hours.AllocateThe next major component of the Shrimpy application is the allocations tab. This provides a quick way to select which assets you want in your portfolio. With access to hundreds of different options, allocating a portfolio is as simple as clicking the assets. These selections will instantly be allocated during the next rebalance based on the specified percentages. Currently, the top left card is where you would insert your exchange and the necessary keys to perform trades on your behalf. On the top right, there is a card which is used to specify how often you would like to rebalance. Finally, the bottom card shows all of your selected allocations and what percent of your portfolio is consumed by each asset. Simply select the trash can to remove assets from “Your Allocations”, and single click any asset on the right to add one back. Just remember to save your changes!Try it out!Now that you have gotten the text tour, try the demo out yourself!Shrimpy Demo Rebalance your portfolio with Shrimpy today! www.shrimpy.io/demoShrimpy has a lot to offer, sign up so you can stay up to date with how we are changing the way people invest in cryptocurrencies.Don’t forget to follow us on Twitter, join us on Telegram, and like us on Facebook.Leave a comment to let us know your experiences with Shrimpy!The Shrimpy Team