
Revolutionize The Way You Spend MoneyCryptocurrency is changing the way banking industry works. It’s a revolution that is still considered a hoax. However, it’s real and it’s progressing with each passing day. Since a third party central source does not govern them, Cryptocurrencies are taking over the conventional banking systems. Over the last few years, a considerable number of people became familiar to the cryptocurrencies.In its initial days, the cryptocurrency was also seen as unsafe and dangerous, just as the credit cards. As a part of human nature, we tend to give denial as our first reaction to an evolution. However, in a short span of time, cryptocurrencies have made their place in the banking market. And to some Fintech analysts, the day cryptocurrencies takeover day to day transaction is not at a far sight. Some common cryptocurrencies that are progressing in this ecosystem every day include Bitcoin, Ether, etc. The currency uses Blockchain Technology to keep it independent and safe.Some of the many advantages of cryptocurrencies include:Advantages of using cryptocurrency: Fraud prevention, Lower fees, Identity theft protectionFraud PreventionThe digitalized currencies cannot be counterfeited or rolled back randomly and have the ability to be easily traced back to their origin. Allowing any misuse of the currency can be detected immediately.Lower FeesAlthough the transaction of cryptocurrency does not really change anything, many users are expected to use third-party companies to maintain their crypto wallets, such as Coinbase. These companies work as for the cryptocurrency same as PayPal works for cash or credit cards.Identity TheftIt is almost impossible for this to happen because access to your crypto wallet is with no one but you. While in credit cards, you have to give up the information of your account to the vendors from which they pull out the required amount, this puts your account and credit cards at risk. However, cryptocurrency offers you push mechanism, through which you do not have to provide access to anyone but in fact can transfer the exact amount all by yourself.Pay Anywhere. Any Cryptocurrency. Any Payment Card.With so many advantages, it is only fair that people holding the currency be allowed to use it freely anywhere and anytime. With the good exchange rate available, the cryptocurrency is not only beneficial for individuals but also for the economy. The takeover of cryptocurrencies on retail is anyhow a feather in the technology’s cap. Every day we are moving towards an ideal cashless society and cryptocurrency is a major step in that direction.Cryptocurrencies can definitely make the world better and increase the growth of local economies if people holding them could spend freely. It was not possible until Mobilum came into existence. Mobilum brings you the solution to spend the cryptocurrency you hold, anywhere using any sort of payment card you generally use.The top features of the Mobilum include:Mobilum Tokens also offer you the best exchange rates for your cryptocurrencies, from which you can benefit a lot.It allows you to spend your cryptocurrency with any payment cards that you use, online or offline.Mobilum App allows you to send money with exchange available in over 30 + currencies in over 150 + countries.Sign up with Mobilum App takes less than a minute.So, what are you waiting for? Sign up with Mobilum today and spend cryptocurrency with an exchange rate you never thought of!