
SHIVOM — THE PLATFORM THAT INTEGRATES BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY WITH GENOMICS.Ever wondered an ecosystem that provides an open web-market place for other providers? The time is now to join Shivom. Shivom is offering the best opportunity for all.Shivom’s idea is to significantly improve health and well-being across the globe. Genomic medicine can enhance the understanding and treatment of as many as 7,000 rare diseases, alongside cancers, complex and long-term disease such as cardiovascular and neurodegenerative conditions, and infections. Shivom is the next evolutionary step in this development, bringing these technologies together to create a revolutionary medical genomics ecosystem that will open up healthcare opportunities for all.Shivom offers the first ever integrated solution for patients and genome data donors where everybody will be able to have their genome sequenced and securely stored. This ecosystem will provide an open web-marketplace for other providers such as pharmaceuticals, research organizations, governments, patient-support groups and insurance companies to add their apps and services, alongside genomic data analytics and personalized medicine.WHY YOU MUST CHOOSE SHIVOMOne amazing thing about Shivom is that, its platform uses blockchain technology to create a genomics ecosystem. It helps make the direct-to-consumer business more open, fair, and beneficial to all users, it ensures data is owned by the data donors themselves. It ensures a transparent and secure bridge to organizations interested in using that data. Shivom also enables genome data donors own their data and access rights. Donors gain rewards for sharing their genomic data on the blockchain by selling access rights directly to third party institutions such as pharmaceutical companies.HOW DOES SHIVOM WORKS?BENEFITS OF SHIVOMGenomic sequencing provides many benefitsShivom helps inIdentifying the best course of care for patients with a particular condition2. Prevention of disease in healthy individuals3. Prediction of disease risk4. Disease diagnosis5.Treatment, including choice of most effective medication and dosage6.Disease prognosis7.Identifying new drug targets.WONDERING IF YOUR DATA WILL BE SECURED?Do not worry at all. Smile because you’ve got shivom. Since all your genomic data will be kept or stored on the blockchain never think of insecurity.TOKEN SALE- USE OF PROCEEDSToken Symbol- OMX20% Platform Development Database building, UI, APIs, and metadata curating. A large part of this budget will be used to make the platform secure and scalable. From there we will implement new features and create the open marketplace.11% Operations & Business DevelopmentDay-to-day operations, team building (developers, geneticists, marketers and managers). Forming the Foundation.10% Non-Profit R&D PlatformDrug discovery platform combining elements of Big Data analytics, artificial intelligence, genomics, proteomics, lipidomics and metabolomics.21% Marketing & Forming PartnershipsOngoing community-building events public communications via traditional marketing channels and persona-based approaches. This also includes educational materials, roadshows, collaboration with other genomics-initiatives, organizing events and conferences, and KOL management.5% LegalRegulatory compliance for all markets Shivom operates in. The level of funding received dictates the distribution of funds. However, reserve structure allows us to reduce the volatility along the way while achieving long-term objectives.2% Initial PoCThis is for First sequencing project in hospitals in rural India.6% Data StorageForecasted to sustain the platform during the first few years.25% LaboratoriesThis is used for setting up a global network of laboratories and counseling services.USE OF PROCEEDSROADMAPTHE TEAM*DR. AXEL SCHUMACHERCo-Founder & CEOPh.D. in Genetics, over 20 years of R&D leadership experience in biomarker discovery, Bio-IT, aging & longevity.*SALLY EAVESCo-Founder & CMOExperienced Chief Technology Officer, Top 10 blockchain inﬂuencer, practicing Professor of FinTech, Global Strategic Advisor, and member of the Forbes Technology Council.*GOURISH SINGLACo-Founder & COOSerial Entrepreneur. Background in investment, banking and wealth management. COO for the #4 company in the digital health space. Singlehandedly established a unit and drove it $35 million revenue.*AKASH GAURAVCo-Founder & CTOBlockchain expert, started India’s first blockchain company, Auxesis Group (Top100 blockchain companies), Blockchain Lab, India, and is an advisor to the blockchain startup Cashaa ($15 million raised).*HENRY INESChief Innovation Officer. Global executive with extensive venture capital, cross-border advisory, corporate finance and entrepreneur.For more detail on our project,Visit our Website- https://shivom.io/Read more on our Whitepaper- https://shivom.io/files/Shivom-Executive-Summary.pdfFollow us on twitter- https://twitter.com/projectshivomJoin our Telegram Page- https://t.me/projshivomLike us on facebook- https://www.facebook.com/ProjectShivomOur ANN Thread- https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3204563.0Our Bounty Thread- https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3183600.0AuthorshipBitcointalk username: OSEIBOATENGProfile link- https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1995707