
Social Send — The Bridge between Cryptocurrency and Social MediaCurrently, sending cryptocurrencies requires the use of private and public keys. Social Send stands out by allowing cryptocurrency to be sent through an easy to use platform integrating the already existing social media networks we know and use. After Social Send’s first beta, where they made the platform public for 1 hour, it got a tremendously positive response. Now, Social Send have announced that the platform will be released on the 25th of April after adding Facebook and making it compatible with the platform.The Social Send platform allows cryptocurrency to be transferred via social networks. You can connect your social media accounts via Discord, E-mail, Twitter and Facebook. Connecting will sync in all your friends, making sending of cryptocurrencies as easy as clicking the button SEND. They have already developed a wallet for WINDOWS/MAC as well as an android version and are currently working on an I-OS version. Social Send is a project that has achieved a lot in only a few months with a very bright future ahead of it.Social Send was swapped at the end of 2017 from Pie Coin by developers dreaming of making a cryptocurrency as “easy as pie” for using in everyday life. Its core team members’ pseudonymous names are listed in the Social Send whitepaper. Now, Social Send is available for purchase on Cryptopia, TradeSatoshi and CryptoBridge. It will soon be available on other additional medium to big exchanges.The POS (Proof of Stake) mining algorithm is used for Social Send rather than POW (Proof of Work) which is used by Bitcoin. This allows anyone to earn coins without requiring expensive computer equipment. Transactions are verified through nodes, a complete and up-to-date copy of the digital currency’s blockchain. For storing coins in a wallet and running a node, users are rewarded with coins after each block is verified. The amount rewarded is proportional to the number of coins staked. Gradually, those running masternodes will be awarded with the highest rewards.Masternodes provide additional rewards for staking, such as voting on proposals for the coin and more consistent, higher rewards. Social Send masternodes require exactly 6250 SEND to be sent to the user’s wallet. The wallet is connected to a Virtual Server hosted online also running a node, typically costing around $5. Setting up a masternode is easy using a one liner installer provided by community member chaoabunga, along with the other steps outlined in the many how-to videos and articles provided by the community.In the final stage, a reward chain will be provided for staking. See the reward percentage at each block here. Not only does staking reward and motivate users to hold their coins, but it also provides Instant Send technology with a Send/Receive notification in seconds, low fees, and coin mixing which further reduces chances of your identity being associated with your transactions on the blockchain.Like any good coin, Social Send has had to endure its share of FUD (Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt). Apparently, part of what drove the price up was a bit of FOMO (Fear of Missing Out) with buyers disillusioned that the coin would be adopted and promoted by social media organizations through official partnerships.While the price was previously driven to all-time highs partially by FOMO, with exciting updates on the horizon, Send’s next all time high will instead be driven by the utility of the coin and their platform. The team, rather than being discouraged, is about to release a working product and deliver their roadmap.To understand the potential of Social Send, consider that in 2017, Litecoin soared from $4.50 USD to $370 because of its utility, offering cheap, quick transactions. Often, users purchase Litecoin to transfer value between exchanges and people before purchasing another coin. Social Send is able to offer itself to be adopted for the same purpose, outdoing Litecoin’s utility with its ability to be sent through social media, email, and the other features the Social Send platform provides. Dash soared from $11.50 to $1500 because of its use of masternodes, masternode governance, and privacy features. Social Send offers all these features.Social Send is a steal to purchase at current prices. With practical utility and ease of use, Social Send is bound to have an incredible future. They are still in their early stages with a relatively low market cap and a working product!