
Unveiling The Future Of BlockchainOr Top 5 Blockchain Trends Which Are Here To StayBlockchain and cryptocurrencies develop so fast that one can not always manage to keep track of all the changes. If we look back to where it was a year ago, one thing is for sure — it’s covered a lot of ground over a very short period of time. Moreover, in its development blockchain is stepping into a lot of terra incognitas in all spheres it touches, so predictions and trends even for the nearest future really run rampant and sometimes border on science fiction. But several things about blockchain we can be almost sure of for the months to come.We’ve gathered some trends and tendencies which, we believe, have all chances to come true this year.1. Blockchain going en masseFirst and foremost, all things crypto will literally lose the crypto part, becoming less cryptic, going into wide masses, and a good grasp of what blockchain is will not be a prerogative of a few select nerds.As blockchain is spreading wider, with more businesses and individuals having to deal with it on everyday basis, the factor of the ‘unknown’ will lessen and things may become more stable and predictable.2. Tackling government and legal issues2017 was the year of ICOs, and the boom was so grand that sometimes things could seem out of control. No suprise that many government regulators were seen if not stepping in, then at least declaring their intent to introduce some legislative initiatives and protect investors. We’ll continue seeing more countries and governments taking various legal stands towards blockchain, with a tendency for developed economies to take a more cautious position and the developing world to embrace blockchain.3. ICOs will continue to blast, despite many governments attempts to reign things in.With more government control, we can expect them to be tighter and cleaner, with a definite shift from quantity to quality. It will be harder for startup projects to find financial backup simply on the basis of a White Paper and a few presentations. Investors will show more pickiness, human resources and teams will factor in, and original concepts as well as social impact of the projects will have much more weight. Some early projects may be very pressed for meeting the new quality standards to the point of being weeded out of the industry.4. The previous two predictions lead to the forth, particularly, the appearance of the Big Fish. Quite a few tech giants already have shown their interest already. Google is reported to be one of the biggest blockchain investors in 2017 and will most definitely continue to be one. Amazon has announced a partnership with R3’s Corda. @Telegram has just set a record with their closed ICO gathering over 1.5 billion dollars, and their announced cryptocurrency, TON, may just push even Bitcoin out of the game, if their claims that it supports millions of transactions per second, unlike Bitcoin’s very limiting number of less than ten. This is a serious claim for substituting even such immovable payment systems as Visa or Mastercard one day.5. Use case diversitySo far we have seen and will continue to see a lot of industries which are known for using cutting-edge technologies try out blockchain. Particularly that‘s true for trading and financial spheres, but in 2018 it’s mostly certain that blockchain will spread much wider — from games to scientific research, agriculture, travelling etc. We can expect a surge in smart-contract based applications for every imaginable sphere of business as soon as the level of security and transparency blockchain offers becomes understandable to broad public. It may also be true that conservative industries may expect a lot of uprooting and disruption being unable to easily adapt to such profound changes.