
Revolut: ‘You’re not immune to sh***y banks’Revolut is Making Breakthrough Growth and adding Support for Both XRP and Bitcoin CashThe MerkleIs The Digital Bank Revolution Near?Revolut was just years ago, nothing more than a few coders with a crazy ambition to disrupt financial services forever, now it’s Europe latest tech unicorn.The London FinTech star planning a new debit card that will give people cash back in cryptocurrencies.Where convenience intersects with FinTech and crypto, pretty much. Revolut was initially targeting international travelers who want to save on currency exchanges when abroad. But they are upping their game.Revolut is Trying New ThingsThe fast-growing startup raised $250 million this week.Revolut is also planning to launch wealth management and cards for kids that parents can control.They are showing more rapid innovation and growth than TransferWiseLondon-head quartered Revolut started as a no-fee foreign exchange card linked to an app but has branched out into everything from travel insurance to cryptocurrency trading. The startup has proved wildly popular and now has over 1.8 million customer and 250,000 daily active users. The company is now worth $1.7 billion, just 33 months after launching. That’s insane growth we are talking about.Revolut Embraced Crypto and Gained Millennial UsersRevolut, who are one of the new digital banking startups, enabled support for Bitcoin, Ether, and Litecoin quite some time ago. They now provide support for XRP and Bitcoin Cash as well.RevolutRevolut allows its users to spend, store, send, and receive payments from both — cryptocurrency accounts and bank accounts.Revolut has now expanded to Scandenavia and Canada soon, and boast some 1.3 million users. As an agile startup, when they launched cryptocryptocurrency trading through its app at the end of 2017, they saw a huge uptick in activity that coincided with the Bitcoin bull market.Revolut integrates a physical card into the foreign payments experience, and really is exciting for crypto enthusiasts like me because Revolut is one of a crop of financial technology firms challenging traditional banks with more advanced digital-accounts services. Being able to buy and exchange cryptocurrencies in addition to lower fees across borders is a huge plus and speaks more to our Millennial consumer preferences.Customers can use their Revolut card globally at interbank exchange fees, and track their spending through the company’s app.As typical local banks have what has been called “clunky apps, poor technology or dated customer service approach”, Revolut and startups in its likeness have a huge opportunity in the traditional idea that some FinTech services would end up challenging banks.FinTech Startups are Becoming Crypto FriendlyAfter all, in 2018, we live in a world where Binance — one of the world’s biggest digital currency exchanges, surpassed the valuations of Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest financial institution. Think about what that means for the future of financial services.In 2018, Revolut is seeking to expand in North America, Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia. Revolut is even planning to add wealth management and integration for its business accounts with services like Slack, Xero, and Quickbooks.TechCrunchWhile Revolut needs to mature its services, it’s growth is a good indication it’s on the right track. Among other things, Revolut is setting out to cater to the demands of younger, tech-savvy generations and thus has a lot of potential. To summarize their value proposition, they have released a debit card service that allows users to spend their digital currency holdings at any Visa-accepting merchant.More than 40 percent of the company’s users today are aged between 25 and 35.Since Revolut is trying a lot of different things, some of them will catch on and their growth as a digital bank could make waves eventually as they are now a legitimate competitor to TransferWise, already a FinTech success story in its own right. As their expand their core financial services: Borderless debit card (Mastercard), cryptocurrencies, insurance, investment and other payments and personal finance related services — we are seeing a FinTech company with the ability to scale quickly. They are based out of London and have 350 employees. They also feature a “virtual” debit card which can be used for online purchases.