
How Bitcoin and a very special book saved my life…May 4, 2013 - The day I had looked forward to since I decided to attend Florida State University had arrived, I was a graduate. Now what?…Deciding to move back home to Miami seemed like the most logical solution at the time. It dawned on me rather quickly that I was not prepared for life after school. The dreaded transition from a student to young professional. I graduated with decent grades but by no means would you call my grades impressive. I never grew up with dreams of being a firefighter or a doctor and lacking proper direction made me easily susceptible to college student distractions. Lacking valuable internship experience or extracurricular activities I did not have the easiest time finding a job. I knew I couldn’t go back in time so I decided to try to move on as best as possible.I got my first job after college in September but quickly realized that I hated it. There were plenty of parts of the job that I liked and I learned many valuable skills but something was missing. I endured it for 2 years thinking that this was just a right of passage, doing something that you hated so that one day you might do something you love. I missed all the signs of things that may interest me, stability was more of a priority than trying to figure out the puzzle that is myself. Both of my parents had some tough jobs when I was growing up, like many immigrants that didn’t speak english they had to take jobs painting gas stations in the hot Miami sun or working 12 hour shifts at factories. The thought that my parents had to endure all of that and I couldn’t endure a comfortable 9 to 5 office job baffled me and honestly hurt me. I hated the thought of being cooped up in an office all day and it started giving me anxiety until I finally decided I had enough.I was so transfixed on my parent’s view of stability that I didn’t really realize I needed to view my life as an individual. I felt like I owed it to them to have stability and instead I bounced around from job to job for a few years struggling to find my footing. I blamed the hiring system and I blamed myself. Continually putting more pressure on myself mixed with more feelings of failure was too much and I would suffer from depression and anxiety on and off over the next few years.