
Dev Update #2 On-Chain Storage and Security SolutionsPhillip, Lead Developer of CrowdCoverage with a word on responsibility and expectations;As we approach our alpha development I wanted to add a note about responsibility when working with the Crowd Coverage platform. In drafting out the architecture for this platform, I encountered a salient conflict. The data which needs to be stored using an insurance product on the blockchain is more than we ideally want (for affordability and scalability). Every kb of data stored on-chain costs the user, the provider, and our team money; further, this problem only exponentiates with the expansion of our userbase and the increase of complexion of our platform. For the MVP, we will be working with you the user in many ways to figure out effective solutions of storing the data and reference it on-chain.We are continuing to consider this during our discussions on architecture, and in doing so, I was reminded how important is to address responsibility in community updates such as these. We, as CrowdCoverage team members, all share responsibility by participating in the development of this platform. Our team is responsible for ensuring that we achieve an MVP that has the potential to scale and help our users safely navigate a blockchain based product.The worst case scenario for our MVP is that we have to centralize certain data that can be referenced by a hash, but can still be utilized by key smart contracts. This means we would have to work with a hybrid solution that will not be our intended final product, but one that will serve the user with performance and security in mind. Best case scenarios for the MVP would include decentralized file storage that would also be referenced by other contracts and allow for the primary chain to be optimized. These scenarios will need to be tested and all would have to involve varying degrees of shared responsibility models.While we will work extremely hard on developing the platform and consistently testing our contract security, performance, and UI interface, we are going to depend on you, the end user, to help us by storing a portion of your own data and by overseeing the security of your device when you interact with our product. This means we may need you to take ownership of your data on a node (IPFS), or, if we implement a side chain, we may ask for you to securely hold on to your data until we test any sidechains or sharding mechanisms. I don’t have exact answers as to what this looks like quite yet, but I do want to prepare our users for this.Through the iterative development of this platform we will be implementing solutions that will require our initial users to be aware of how they store their data, and how they access the app. I am taking the time to mention this relationship between us and our users for the benefit of our users and the health of the platform as it goes through these initial stages of development.As we progress through these stages, we will frequently update our users through our telegram chat and other secure methods of communication if necessary. For more general announcements on the platform development, compliance issues, and exciting developments, we will be using our Medium blog and social media. Please check back in occasionally so you can stay up-to-date on our development process and chime in wherever you may have an idea or wherever you may like to voice a concern.Shared responsibility is an important part of every decentralized solution. We all play a part in the creation of this product. We look at you initial users not as numbers, but as important contributors to this solution. As such, your voices are incredibly important. Without your input we can’t possible accomplish a decentralized solution to insurance generation and claims processing. We invite you to participate in the inception of this product and create something truly special together.Thanks for reading; you’ll be hearing from me again soon!-Phillip