
Platform Development Update — March 8th, 2018At 12:00 PM GMT today we deployed a series of performance improvements to the Bitfinex platform to facilitate a cleaner and faster trading experience for our users.The update, which has taken 26+ hours to deploy, represents a big leap towards our goal of running Bitfinex as a massively distributed system, and can be read about in more detail below.1. Dynamic Order FormThe order form has been entirely rewritten and features support for custom order layouts. These layouts will be enabled & further documented in the future, alongside the new Honey Framework release. The internal order logic itself has been rewritten to directly use the WS2 API connection, bringing the Bitfinex trading UI in line with other users consuming the API; essentially, all users now trade on the WS2 interface.Scaled Order IntegrationThe built-in Scaled Order type has also been moved into the order form from its previous location in an external popup, and the Calculator tool has been refactored.2. User Interface StabilityThe update brings with it improved UI stability and has brought us one step closer to moving to a 100% React frontend. Frontend errors are now self-contained to the component that originated them, and in general a number of bugs have now been fixed.3. User Interface TweaksToday’s update replaces individual exchange/margin trading pair selection in the Account section with per-currency selection, simplifying the account configuration process for traders. The Offer Form has been updated to take into account the new order form changes, and the FRR Fixed Delta funding order type has been broken out with a checkbox.Alongside the changes to the Order & Offer forms, the Auto Renew setting control panel has also seen a rewrite and will eventually be migrated to the WS v2 API along with the rest of the frontend components.4. Platform Performance ImprovementsFinally, a smoother trading experience will be felt by users through the removal of a number of legacy code pathways, including bug-fixes. Alongside this, we have deployed the foundation of the new distributed Hive trading engine. Eventually, this will allow for smooth on-demand scaling as platform load changes over time, enabling us to meet growing demand without any interruption to user-facing services.