
Say farewell to high cryptocurrency exchange fees and hello to Investa!Image: InvestaWhen is a cryptocurrency token not simply a cryptocurrency token? When you’re talking about Investa’s INV token!Blockchain technology is still in its infancy but it has already taken its rightful seat in the world of tech, and with over 1500 altcoins listed on CoinMarketCap, there appears to be no end in sight in what this tech can accomplish.As more and more people are taking notice of blockchain tech, companies and teams of people are working hard to offer products and services which will help resolve and/or improve a product or service. And due to the high demand for cryptocurrencies — are the many trading platforms.If you’ve invested in cryptocurrency you will have inevitably raised an eyebrow at the transaction fee imposed on a deposit or withdraw when using fiat. Many cryptocurrency exchange platforms, of course, charge you higher rates the higher your investment is, which can run into hundreds if not thousands of dollars in fees over a period of time. I know I’ve gulped and taken a deep breath before clicking on the “buy” button.If you’re a trader, fees ranging from 1–2% are typical, and conversion margins can seriously impede on making those bucks. Plus, cryptocurrency traders are stuck in limbo especially when a crypto-coin is the ‘one’ to trade at that time, which due to lack of liquidity and non-real time transaction confirmations.And what about the time it takes to process the transactions? You could have travelled around the world by steamboat — twice — waiting for a transaction to go through, with some exchanges.Lest I mention hacking. A number of well-known exchange platforms have been attacked, including Bitfinex in 2016 when 120,000 Bitcoins with a value of 480 million USD (at the time), was lost.But you want to invest, and why shouldn’t you? Why should you put-off that purchase of cryptocurrency because of high transaction fees? If you are a dab hand at buying crypto-coins, you’ve likely already carried out plenty of research and have found an exchange platform whose fees are extortionate, but lower than the others.You have no alternative, right? Actually, you would be wrong.No more searching. You’ve found the best cryptocurrency exchange!Enter Investa.Now, Investa have created an exchange — the Investa Exchange and this does exactly what you’d expect from a world-class cryptocurrency exchange, namely providing trading and ICO underwriting to help resolve all those issues which haunt already existing cryptocurrency exchange platforms.The Investa Exchange has managed to squeeze trading fees down to a delicious 0.5%, so any trader can actually turn a decent profit, rather than being bogged down with steep fees as I mentioned above. Investa will also present “real-time” trading so no more waiting, no more frustration. And if this wasn’t enough for you, the Investa Exchange also has plans to solve ICO token’s liquidity problems through its ICO underwriting service — all under Investa’s Launchpad. You can out more about Investa’s Launchpad in their white paper.Naturally, the Investa Exchange will support their INV token as well as other major cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Monero (XMR), Bitcoincash (BCH), Dash (DSH), Zcash (ZEC), and Ripple (XRP).A large range of fiat currencies will also be supported — check out their white paper for full details.With team of customer service agents available 24/7 to help an investor with any question they might have — Investa is showing other cryptocurrency exchanges the door!Of course, choosing an ICO to join and invest in can sometimes be baffling with so many stating that they will fix this or help to resolve that. Fortunately, Investa is here — say farewell to high transaction fees and hello to saving and making plenty of money!Image: InvestaToken Standard: ERC-20Token code : INVMaximum Coin Supply : 50,000,000Soft Cap : 1,000,000Hard Cap : 30,000,000Price/Base Rate : 1 ETH = 1,620 INVFor more information visit Investa website: https://investaco.inFor technical details and more in depth details Investa white paper:https://investaco.in/assets/pdf/White_Paper_Ver_1-6.pdf