
Jeffrey Wernick VIP speaker at Blockchain Festival in VietnamOn the 24th and 25th of May 2018 Entrepreneur, Private Investor and early Bitcoin investor Jeffrey Wernick will be a attending Blockchain Festival in Vietnam as a VIP Speaker. Jeffrey Wernick will be talking about ‘ Finding Value in the Blockchain Industry ’. Wat is Blockchain Festival?On 24th — 25th May 2018 Blockchain Festival will be held in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. Tickets can be purchased HERE. This Blockchain event, organized by Huobi Pro and Kyber Network, will feature world-class leaders, project founders, developers, tech-teams, investors, traders and other blockchain enthusiasts.About Jeffrey WernickJeffrey Wernick started trading futures and options when he was a student at the University of Chicago. After he finished his degree at Chicago University he started working at Salomon Brothers and then after that he became the youngest senior officer at the National Bank of Detroit. After working for employers he started his own company, AVI Portfolio Services Company, Inc., that specialized in Risk management, transaction consulting, credit insurance and derivative projects. His company was acquired in 1984 by the largest insurance company in diversified financial interests. After he sold his company he did a lot of money management and is highly experienced in finding solid projects to invest in. He was an Angel Investor in Uber and Airbnb. As an Angel investor he is focused on expanding the sharing economy, biomedical projects and blockchain technologies.He was one of the first people to notice Bitcoin and it’s potential. Ever since he started investing in Bitcoin in 2009 he is interested in Blockchain technologies. In October 2017 Mr. Wernick joined Blockchain platform Qtum as a member of their advisory board.“I meet with many people in the blockchain and cryptocurrency community, and what impressed me about Qtum is the people and their pursuit of intellectual integrity.Qtum is committed to decentralization, and their approach to blockchain is more constructive and adaptive than anything else I’ve seen. Qtum is committed to open source where greater privacy is preserved, and greater benefits accrue to everyone participating in the ecosystem.” ~Jeffrey WernickRecently Mr. Wernick joined decentralized payment system for cryptocurrencies, LITEX as an advisor. LITEX supports instant send micropayments with an extreme low service charge.Other speakers at the event will be Tyler Wu, Managing Director of Huobi Pro, Hubery Yuan, Dean of Huobi Academy, Dr. David Nguyen, Chairman of Regulus Investment & Capital Holdings, Loi Luu, Founder of Kyber Network, Val Yap, Founder and CEO of PolicyPal Network, Owen Tao, CEO of Matrix, James Ahn, Ceo of Edenchain, Selina Lin, Ceo of DRC, Emily Lee, Co-founder of Blockgame. Topics that will be discussed are among others: decentralized exchanges, dBft, Blockchain startup trends, who will overtake Bitcoin and scalability developments: Casper, Sharding and Plasma.   Summary of Blockchain Festival Vietnam: Join Huobi Pro at their biggest event, Blockchain Festival Vietnam!  Date: 24–25 May 2018  Location: GEM Center, Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh City  Speakers: 30+ including 4 mystery speakers Exhibitors: 40+ Participants: 1,600+ Ticket prices start at 1,000,000 VND/ 36 EUR / 40 USD*Use the 50% Discount Code: JEFF50 to get 50% off your ticket price.Get your Tickets HERE before prices go up or the event is sold out.A link to the event page, click HERE.Subscribe to my channels Medium, Steemit and Twitter if you would like to be informed about Blockchain en cryptocurrency news. My handle is @LindaCrypto for all channels.If you like my article please give me a clap. Thank you!LindaCrypto