
Review of the mCart projectHello, dear readers of my blog! Today I want to continue the story about the most interesting and perspective projects which ICO passes now or the project only prepares for carrying out ICO. Today we will speak about the project which carries already out the ICO, and carries out quite successfully. It will be a question of the mCart project.First of all there is a wish to tell about what is this project.mCart — the mCart Protocol represents the decentralized platform of marketing which considers needs of buyers, sellers and marketing specialists, using clever contract opportunities of the blockchain based on Ethereum. Using these smart contracts, marketing specialists and sellers can is transparent and honestly to carry out cooperation, providing to each participant the correct financial incentives for participation in an ecosystem.So, we have the platform of marketing designed to create transparency and honesty in the sphere of purchases, using for this purpose blockchain technology. Quite interesting and perspective idea which besides isn’t strongly widespread so the mCart project has all opportunities to win the market and to become one of the first who has introduced blockchain technology in marketing. And the mCart project and what his chances to achieve success is how perspective — we will try to understand it, having made the full analysis of this project. And we will begin the analysis, as well as usually, with the website of this project.The website is executed rather qualitatively and will definitely not be able to frighten off the person visiting this site for the first time. Information is distributed on the website competently and accurately. At once information on ICO passing now which at once suggest to join is evident. Here information on the current collecting the project which at the time of writing of article make already $4.1 M. Hard Cap of the project is provided makes $15 of M. Rather quite good result, considering that ICO has begun not so long ago. This result speaks about investor confidence to the mCart project that is very important for those who else plan to invest in this project.Here information on terms of carrying out ICO and the bonuses provided at the moment is provided. At the time of writing of article of investment into mCart cost $0:47 for 1 token. Also now there is an opportunity to receive in addition 20% a bonus. But this offer is limited on time and comes to an end on May 4.Rating. How the project is estimated by experts what their opinion on this project and what their assessment is based on is important for most of investors. The mCart project has very good ratings which are close to maximum. We will consider the rating of the project from ICO Bench. Assessment which ICO Bench gives to the mCart project equals 4.6/5.0. This assessment is based on opinion of two authoritative experts that adds confidence in the mCart project. Also there is a wish to note that the mCart project has an official markICO KYC Report which confirms verification of persons of team of the mCart project and speaks to us about reality of their existence. Now it is very important as there are a lot of various skam-projects which don’t undergo verification and as a result deceive the investors. With the mCart project of such problem can’t be already definitely.Team. As we have already begun to speak about team, there is a wish to continue this conversation and to tell in more detail about the people entering into team of the mCart project and who are engaged in development of this project. In general all team of the project consists of quite famous and dear people who have experience with various projects which are very successful and known now. For example it is possible to take Emmanuel Abiodun which is a Businessman, the Technologist and the Investor in Blockchain space. He is connected with such world famous companies as Oracle, J. P. Morgan and HSBC. Besides Emmanuel, dozens of famous and dear people which have achieved huge successes and the world popularity work on development and development of the project. You can learn about each of members of the team in more detail on the mCart project website. I only want to note once again that all members of the team are verified, their personality is confirmed and checked. Also all of them you can check and, having visited their profiles on social network LinkedIn.White Paper. Very important part of any project is his White Paper. And the more qualitatively and more professionally he is made, the more investors will trust this project. At once there is a wish to note joyful news to Russian-speaking users — for them there is a Russian-language version of the project with which we also will get acquainted.At once there is a wish to tell that WHite Paper is made rather qualitatively and has rather large volume in 30 pages. Generally problems which have moved developers on creation of the mCart project understand White Paper, questions of the mCart project, his creation, development, an ecosystem and protocols understand. It is much told about mCart token, about his scheme of process and a sale. It is much told also about examples of integration of the mCart project into modern realities. With all information I advise you personally to examine in White Paper mCart, especially it is completely localized into Russian and it can’t cause any problems.Summing up the result, there is a wish to tell that the mCart project very much was pleasant to me. Though the idea and not absolutely new, but mostly — it is unique. To me the projects similar to mCart seldom meet. And projects which have such strong idea and so professional and famous team — meet even less often. Everything that I have seen in the mCart project — inspires in me trust. I have no doubts concerning success of this project, I am sure that the project will surely achieve success. Especially investors promote it, investing already quite serious sum in this project. Soft Cap has already collected the project, Hard Cap can also collect without special problems. I don’t see risks of investments into the mCart project, the project will undoubtedly grow and develop. My assessment to the project — 4.9/5.0.The official site — https://mcart.io/ANN THREAD — https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2622278.0White Paper — https://mavatar.attach.io/SkjCtRJR~White Paper RUS — https://mavatar.attach.io/SkW9hLf8zTELEGRAM — https://t.me/mCartProtocolTwitter — https://twitter.com/mCartProtocolFacebook — https://www.facebook.com/mCartProtocolAuthorAnomaBITCOINTALK PROFILEhttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1682383