
Wings integrated crowd sale smart contract updateShortly after deploying our smart contract integration with Wings, the Wings community asked us whether the forecast was total or for the main sale only. Thanks to their inquiries we reviewed the logic of the smart contract and discovered an issue. The smart contract was not as intended, due to miscommunication between White Rabbit and the developers. This issue is now resolved and the smart contract and forecasting redeployed.As stated in our legal documents and White paper, a failure to reach $2M would see us return the funds as we could not be sure to deliver as promised below that sum. The previous smart contract did not deliver on our intent for funds raised in pre-sale, only in the main sale.We could of have issued a statement and asked for your trust. Or perhaps you might not even have noticed. However, such action would go against everything we love about blockchain and what we intend to achieve with White Rabbit. We therefore amended the smart contract to deliver as promised. So thank you, Wings community for asking questions to ensure we rechecked the smart contract and fixed the potential conflict of interest.As we see it, the beauty of the trustless system is that is fosters trust. Money is an object that all too often comes in the way of opportunity to do something important, necessary and good. Removing money as a potential conflict from relationships means we can focus on all the fun stuff, all the important stuff: creativity, creation, bridge building.To allow us to have a discussion on what really matters during our token sale and beyond, we decided to relaunch our smart contract and restart forecasting that delivers on its promise: to foster trust. We are all trying to set a new standard, and we will make whatever hard decisions we have to make in order to hold those standards.We apologize deeply for any inconvenience caused, especially to those who have already forecast. We hope you understand we do this for the best of the project and its contributors and we thank you for taking the time to re-submit your forecast.In the meantime, keep being #responsiblerebels