
BillionsInternet of thingsAbstractThe creator of Ethereum, Vitalik Buterin:“It is an established fact that ninety percent of startups fail.And it should also be an established fact that ninety-percent of these ERC20s on CoinMarketCap are going to go to zero.There are some good ideas, there are a lot of very bad ideas, and there’s a lot of very, very bad ideas, and quite a few scams as well. I expect that tokens2.0 and the kinds of things that people will start building in 2018 and 2019 will generally be of substantially higher quality. Especially once we start seeing what the consequences of the first wave of tokens are in the medium-to-longer term … What is a good role for them and what is a role that doesn’t really make sense?I think part of this actually comes from the fact that these tokens don’t have sensible valuation models. Basically, if you try to economically model the idea of tokens being valuable as a medium of exchange, you start to realize that it’s a very multi-equilibrium game. Basically, tokens maintain their value if people want to hold them. In general, when you have a new industry and you have this early stage 1.0 period, lots of people try different things, and lots of people try lots of things that just make no sense whatsoever. After some time, the market does mature … I personally do think it is coming but there is going to be a process involved in getting there.”according to ethnews.com .In my reviews I’m looking for reasonable assessment models, criteria for the prospects and competitiveness of projects. I investigate and analyze. Join!BillionsHi, crypto-guys! With you cyber hamster and my stories. Today, especially for you, I’ll write an additional scenarios to one of the parts of the popular TV-series so that you can feel yourself in place of the main characters. So, let’s go!Innovations. Architecture. Decentralized Network.Innovations without doubt and delays penetrate into mode of life, production, construction … But to see how it is dense and deep, it is enough to see how this is reflected in the cultural layer-cinema, music, books. And I immediately remember the second episode of the third season of the popular TV-series “Billions” . Where Asia Kate Dillon in the role of Taylor Amber Mason announces the Internet of Things an attractive direction for investment, in front of a group of managers at venture capital companies and hedge funds. And what do you know about this promising industry and how would you describe it? I will show you an example of a project that is not only in the field of the Internet of Things(IoT) but also in blockchain technology — IoTex .According to the BCG study conducted in 2017:“ To understand how IoT is being deployed by businesses today — and where the major growth opportunities will be in the future — we analyzed trends currently shaping the IoT landscape. Our analysis uncovered three major findings.One, there is no such thing as “the” Internet of Things: today’s market is heavily driven by specific use case scenarios. Two, while in the aggregate, companies will spend an incremental €250 billion on IoT in 2020 (over and above their normal technology spending), three industries will account for approximately 50% of that spending. And three, although all layers of the IoT technology stack are poised to grow through 2020, the layers are not equally attractive.”IoTeX is dedicated to create the next generation of the IoT-oriented blockchain platform. The cutting edge blockchain-in-blockchain architecture will address the scalability, privacy, isolatability, and developability issues relating to the IoT DApps and ecosystem growth. By combining token incentives with our vibrant global community, IoTex believe IoTex can crowdsource top industry and community talents to push the frontier of blockchain 3.0.More information about the architecture of the project you can get by reading about Whitepaper.In order for readers to get more information about the project, I will conduct my own marketing research and make an VRIO, PEST, SWOT analysis, based on data obtained from open sources of information. And also use the data from the study BCGMy scenarios is ready!With you was a cyber hamster and my personal subjective opinion about the IoTeX project. Discover new horizons and conduct your own research. Good luck!For more information, please visit Link:IoTex - A Decentralized Network for Internet of Things (IoT) Powered by a Scalable, Private &…A Decentralized Network for Internet of Things (IoT) Powered by a Scalable, Private & Extensible Blockchainiotex.io@iotexA Privacy-Centric Blockchain for IoTmedium.comIoTeX (u/IoTex_io) - RedditA Privacy-Centric Blockchain for IoTwww.reddit.comIoTeX (@iotex_io) | TwitterThe latest Tweets from IoTeX (@iotex_io). A Privacy-Centric Blockchain for IoTtwitter.comIoTeX OfficialIoTeX offical announcement channel. Official website: https://iotex.io.t.meIoTex - A Decentralized Network for Internet of Things (IoT) Powered by a Scalable, Private &…A Decentralized Network for Internet of Things (IoT) Powered by a Scalable, Private & Extensible Blockchainiotex.ioDisclaimer: The article is published for participation in the marketing program. Evaluation expresses my personal opinion and is not recommendation make investment decisions. This analysis is based on open public information and contains conclusions and information relevant to the date of the report.hash_id —[ yNNG4]This article was created by Tktktk: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1119627