
Slips Weekly Update (19/04/2018)Hi guys,This is the first of our weekly development updates to let you know what we are working on, what’s coming up and what you need to add to your diary.Slips is a small self funded project, we have not launched an ICO or brought on private investors yet. Of course, we also have some huge competitors!So if you are the sort to support the underdog then we appreciate all the help we can get in promoting the project. Please join us on Telegram (https://t.me/slipstoken) if you want to get involved at the ground level on one of the hottest projects of the year!Without any further ado, here is this week’s update!Important Information for Bounty Campaign Participants:You would normally submit your reports tomorrow (Friday) but due to the fact our system is not 100% up and running, we are delaying this. There will be updates on the Bitcointalk.org thread, Telegram channels and on Twitter and Facebook as soon as it's up and running (no later than this weekend).Sorry for the inconvenience!Product DevelopmentOur biggest project this week was designing the wallet for the Slips “Proof of Concept”. There will be a more thorough blog post next week explaining how we develop things here at Slips but in a nutshell it begins when our CEO and product manager develops a specification. From there, our lead artist (and only artist) takes the concept from a specification/wireframe and turns it into the gorgeous design work you have been accustomed to seeing from us. Next stop is to give it to the code monkeys… but anyway we will stop talking and share some examples of what we came up with:If you are interested in helping us choose from a range of different options our lead designer has put together, please join the discussion on Telegram or see the Twitter thread.We also spent this last week getting the bounty campaign management tool up and running. You can now apply and (in the next few days) submit your reports through this system. We are looking into the possibility of showing you a running total of stakes earned as well.Earn Slips for helping us promote the project. Find out more at Bitcointalk.org thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3316870.0Sadly we got into a little bit of trouble with our Airdrop campaign when a bunch of bot users hijacked the Google Form that we were using. A few enterprising users were also telling people what to choose in the bot guard question. So we had to spend some time both making a new custom form that was more bot unfriendly as well as clean up the database. Users will have received an email with some instructions on how to reclaim their place in the whitelist if we suspected they were a bot user! :)FundingWe are currently putting together a list of investors that we will be cold-calling after some of our warm leads turned cold last week. We decided to pivot our strategy to working on our proof of concept (see above) and then approach a few at the same time when we have a working product.At the moment we have no plans to run a Token Generation Event (TGE), although we are distributing some tokens as part of our marketing plan.