
OKEX & What HappenedHello community!You have been watching us working day after day making Voise the world’s best music distribution platform for artists and listeners alike. You have stood with us in good and rough times, and your amazing moral and financial contribution to our product is what keeps us motivated all the time.Today we once again ask you to stand with us in the face of a minor roadblock. In many of previous blog-posts, we had promised our community that we’ll have VOISE tokens listed on a top five exchange this exchange was OKEX, a Belize-based virtual currency exchange. Our promise was derived from a business commitment made by the OKEX team which, as we thought, was going to be executed in February.We need to inform our valued community that the deal between Voise and OKEX met a dead end only recently, after multiple delays on the part of the OKEX team, we took over the project and during the negotiations the exchange changed the parameters for listing the Voise token. We feel they should have honored the original contract, despite any current policy changes.We do not mean to put the OKEX team in a bad light but their refusal to list us after they agreed to list us, has gone over our heads. We have asked them for a proper explanation on the matter, but we haven’t received any concrete response yet. Which is why, we have decided to redirect our resources to get listed on other exchanges and we will revisit OKEX when we meet their new requirements that they have imposed on us and other projects. This is not isolated to Voise, from our understanding other projects are having similar listing issues.We are hell-bent towards getting our tokens listed on exchanges, an listing suggestions can be sent to Brandon Diamond. This blogpost is an effort to stay transparent with you our community the voice of voise, and to ensure you all that we are committed to everyone’s success. We Continue to add voise tokens to other exchanges, Cryptowolf being the most recent: https://cryptowolf.eu/Moving forward there will be more exchanges onboarded. We hope this clarifies some of the questions that surrounded the OKEX listing.We Value the support of this fantastic community, There are some very interesting developments this spring, our Android App Beta is about to hit the Official Chan, Huge thanks to our 60 or so specially selected Beta Testers in the private beta! We are looking forward to all the feedback from the entire community this next week!Andre Ledoux, CEO, Voise Inc.