
Why We’re Obsessed with DecentralandNote: The thoughts below are my own and are not intended to reflect DCG’s position on these issues.As the crypto space has blown up, a ton of new investors have flooded the space, and all seem to be chasing the same ideas. In response, we continue to seek out under-the-radar projects that inspire us and where we can add unique value. In that vein, we’ve been spending a lot of our time on a project called Decentraland (DCL). We absolutely love this project and I’m excited to tell you why.An image from Decentraland’s promo videoBackground and TeamThink of DCL as Second Life + VR + blockchain. In its fullest form, it’ll be the true incarnation of the Oasis from Ready Player One or the Metaverse from Snow Crash, but with a native cryptocurrency called MANA, distributed ownership of land (LAND), and decentralized governance using tools created by a project called Aragon.The project was founded in 2017 by Argentinian entrepreneurs Ari Meilich and Esteban Ordano, who conceived of the concept while living in a hacker house for blockchain developers. We’ve known Esteban for years, as he was an early employee at DCG portfolio company BitPay and co-founder of DCG portfolio company Zeppelin. He’s a brilliant developer, and his involvement alone grabbed our attention. Digging into the project, we’ve now spent a lot of time with Ari, who has an eclectic background across neuroscience, entrepreneurship, and venture capital. He’s proven to be insightful, mission-driven, and innovative.Last spring, the team released a thoughtful whitepaper explaining the vision of the project. Then in August, they completed a $25mm token sale, which DCG participated in. The foundation behind the project (run by Ari and Esteban) received the proceeds of the sale in MANA, and is using that money to bring DCL to life.A map of DCL created by the Decentraland Design QuarterThe LANDIn November, the “Terraform” (i.e., forming of the land) began. First, the foundation solicited proposals for “districts,” whereby community members could prepare written plans for specific land use cases, and then solicit donations from other community members. For every 1000 MANA received, they would get one parcel of LAND, and then the actual LAND would be released to them if they hit certain milestones in 2018 (to prove they’re on track to actually develop the projects).In December, DCL held an open, public auction of around 45,000 parcels, with each parcel starting at 1000 MANA (about $100 at the time). Roughly 35,000 parcels were purchased at an average of around 3000 MANA per parcel. Between the district process and the auction, 161,483,050 MANA were spent (worth about $28mm at the end of the auction). This MANA was “burned” (i.e., destroyed and taken out of circulation forever) rather than sent to the founder — further reinforcing the decentralized nature of the project (as the LAND was never owned by the foundation). Over 3000 unique addresses participated in the auction, and the most expensive parcel sold for 600k MANA (~$60k).Today, there are a total of 90,601 parcels. The parcels are non-fungible tokens (NFT’s) whose ownership is recorded on the Ethereum blockchain using the ERC-721 standards (this is the same way that CryptoKitties are tracked on the blockchain). They’re non-fungible because every parcel has a different set of (x,y) coordinates (here’s a map). Each parcel is 10x10 meters, and the entire city (known as Genesis City) is approximately the size of Washington DC.There are four categories of land:Private land, which was sold in the auction. Another 12,000 parcels of private land will be sold in a second auction later this year. DCG purchased private land.Districts, which were granted to projects prior to the auction and have specific roadmaps. For example, one district called “Vegas City” will host casinos and entertainment, the “University” will offer all sorts of VR education courses, and “Fashion Street” will be a high-end area where digital goods are sold.Community land, which will function as spawn areas for individual avatars or parks.Roads, which will allow avatars to travel around and discover content and experiences.The size of the world will likely need to expand over time as it becomes crowded. The rate of growth and the process for creating new LAND is to-be-determined (as is the process for making these decisions), but most likely there will be future auctions in which MANA will be the only means of payment and the MANA spent will again be burned (thereby reducing the supply). This is critical to understanding the economics of DCL.DCG’s ThesisFirst, we believe it’s inevitable that humans will spend a significant amount of time in virtual worlds in the future (both web-based worlds like Second Life and eventually in full scale VR-based worlds). So, something like DCL could become the next big social platform.Second, we believe that VR will eventually take off and become the next big media platform, and when it does, a “virtual world” will function as the search engine for VR content. So, something like DCL could become the Google of VR.Third, we think it’s a scary prospect that one centralized corporation will own the world in which millions or billions of people are spending most of their time. Look at the recent controversy around Facebook, which owns an addictive photo sharing website. Can you imagine the issues around privacy and censorship that will arise if a company like that owns the world that people “live” in?Fourth, we think a virtual world built on a blockchain can achieve significant network effects (similar to those achieved by Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Bitcoin). Early community members, MANA owners, and LAND holders will evangelize the platform to others, bringing in more users, investors, developers, and companies, enhancing the experience for all. Furthermore, the fact that developers and entrepreneurs can actually own their own land and build whatever businesses they want on top of it (knowing that somebody like Google, Facebook, or Twitter can’t suddenly change the rules or tweak their algorithms) will get them comfortable making serious investments of time and energy, and eventually lead to a better experience than one company could ever build.There are a few other reasons we love DCL: its early and under-the-radar, a vibrant community is taking root, and the project is fun, inspiring, and multidisciplinary.We think this could be blockchain’s killer app, because the technology works extremely smoothly in cyberspace where there is no “last-mile” problem. For example, people have talked about using blockchains to record land title for years, but in the real world it hasn’t worked because (1) you’d have to strip out a legacy system and (2) the fact that ownership is recorded on a blockchain wouldn’t actually stop an oppressive regime from seizing one’s land. With LAND, however, I own it and control it with my private keys, and nobody can take it from me unless I am hacked. Ethereum-based “smart contracts” for LAND, such as mortgage and leases, will execute seamlessly and automatically in DCL in a way that smart contracts tied to real world assets never could (DCG portfolio company Ripio is working on setting up the mortgage infrastructure using its blockchain-based lending protocol).We also think that DCL could become the first fully-functioning DAO (decentralized autonomous organization) with real user traction. One of the big ideas around smart contracts is that you can use them to construct new types of organizations where token holders have voting rights and collectively make decisions regarding changes to the protocol and application-layer rules. And one of the big ideas behind DCL is that, unlike similar projects like High Fidelity, the world will eventually have decentralized governance. While the decisions today are being made by the foundation with feedback from the community, over time the foundation will relinquish its formal power and put the project into the hands of the users. So, Genesis City will eventually have its own democratically elected government. How cool is that?ConclusionThere are still a bunch of open questions around the project. When will VR be mass-market ready? Is DCL simply ahead of its time? Will MANA be a widely used medium-of-exchange in DCL, or will all of the value accrue to LAND? What will the user experience actually be like, what will the “rules of physics” be, and how will these impact the economics of LAND? Can DCL make the transition to decentralized governance effectively?We are willing to risk being too early, because what looks “too early” often appears “just right” in hindsight. And rather than making a passive bet, we are doing a lot to grow and accelerate the development of the DCL ecosystem. On that note, we would love to help you all get involved. If you have ideas or just want to learn more, please don’t hesitate to reach out to me on twitter @travisscher. The potential here is truly unlimited — whatever you imagine can become real in DCL.(If you’re more visual, here is a SlideShare that presents the same ideas.)