
Analyse the product adoption lifecycle for Mobile wallets in IndiaSo What is Mobile Wallet?Huge penetration of smart electronic devices like phone, tablet or smart watch has brought mobile wallet in India and other countries. Through this kind of wallet , all monetary transactions can be done without carrying our credit or debit card or Cash.What is Mobile Wallet doing in India?Throughout history, human beings have relied on some sort of payment system to purchase the goods or services we wanted or needed.If there has been one consistent theme regarding the evolution of payments, it’s that we prefer payments that are convenient and transactional.Between 1940 to 2018, India has been a tremendous market for seeing change in different modes of payment. Starting from Credit card ,paypal ,paytm ,phonpe with recent Unified Payment Interface, Indians have always showed a skeptical attitude towards the electronic mode of payments for paying their bills or buying a movie tickets or paying a cab even when ATM’s have dried up.India’s emergence as a digital payment powerhouse is an unlikely story. Until recently, cash accounted for 95% of transactions, 85% of workers were paid in cash, and 70% of online shoppers chose ‘cash on delivery’ as their preferred payment option. Until the great “Demonetisation” occurs suddenly on November 8th 2016What is the Adoption curve of mobile wallet in India?Since I am a new learner of Product Adoption Lifecycle , I would like to add a small picture in my story. The below graph is very important to understand why I believe that mobile wallet is still has a long way to go to become a household tool for even a minimum grocery item.Between 2000 to 2016- India has become 3rd largest Internet User in the world and usage of mobile apps become an adventure among millennial and risk takers. Although after demonetisation as per Economic Times report, PayTM one of the first Indian Mobile Wallets company have reached 200 million users in February 2017 . Still 35% of Indians are still early adopters of Mobile Wallet. However our golgappa sellers, fish sellers, pan seller have adopted digital wallet payments to ease customer’s life still , acceptance and reliability of digital wallet needs to be established among majority Indians. Emergence of digital wallet in rural India is still in its nascent state.Factors and challenges which affected rate of mobile wallet adoptionThere are few factors to discuss here which are a chasm for mobile wallets:Benefits of Wallet over cash- Apart from demonetisation , no clear benefits over cash or card payment reached to common people. People needs to be educated that Wallet platforms can be used to recharge mobile phone credit, secure loans, pay utility bills, book a holiday, buy entertainment tickets, travel on the metro, and even trade gold. People needs to clarified that how secure this payment structures are and their details like bank account number , card details, Identify proofs are safe and won’t be compromised under any circumstances.Affinity towards Cash- Data shows that by 2019 , 39% Indians will use smartphones. This clearly proves that technical issues and cognisance of payment through mobile have a long runway to take off.Growth and product adoption comparison with other payment methodsAlong with Mobile Wallets , other modes of payments available in India areNet BankingBank CardsCashUPIBanking cards also known as the plastic cash is the most popular mode of transaction in the country. The banking cards such as debit and credit cards are in existence for a long while now in urban areas and are acceptable at most of the purchase counters as well as for online transactions.As per RBI, currently, more than 29 million debit cards and 570 million debit cards are in use in India. Thus, the adoption rate of Banking cards is much higher than the mobile wallets as of now. [Courtesy: https://productcoalition.com/mobile-wallets-adoption-in-india-8e4e855d7de7]Internet Banking has also become very common among the urban population. People readily use inter-banking banking to make online transfers. Since the internet banking services are provided directly by the Banks to their account holders, some people consider it more safe means of online transaction. However, due to the complex process and high-speed internet requirements, the adoption of Internet banking is less famous than the mobile wallets.[Courtesy: https://productcoalition.com/mobile-wallets-adoption-in-india-8e4e855d7de7]Growth HacksFocussing on the challenges , Cashback, Free coupon , partnership with e -commerce companies, Cab aggregator Easy online transactions, intuitive app with excellent user experience needs to be implemented to break the chasm and spread the growth to 50% of wallet adoptionSummaryLooking at the current picture, India is witnessing an exponential growth in the are of mobile wallets.Government has set a target of Rs 2,500 crore on digital transactions in FY 2018 (Rs 625 crore in the first quarter of which merely 37 percent was met). Digital payments have a huge potential. However a change in mindset with regular marketing on Security , Using Mobile App , and Reliability on Mobile Payments can establish the mobile payments.References:Materials from MediumMaterial from google