
OLTarget’s Value for the OLPORTAL ProjectIt is no secret that today ever more companies decide to spend more money on the digital marketing rather than on traditional media sources. The world is rapidly moving towards the new age of the cipher supremacy. Consumption of digital content gain in popularity day by day. Today one of the most popular advertisement campaigns is the targeted advertising, which sizes a certain category of people answering the settled search parameters. In most cases, the targeted audience represents people having certain interests connected with the advertised product, service, or other. In a nutshell, such adverts hit right on target! It is considered one of the most efficient types of advertisements as it covers a wide range of interested users, that is much more effective than working on a quantity of the indifferent mass of people.OLTarget of OLPORTAL refers to this layer of digital advertising and presents our own targeting service where both users and advertisers can have their advantages and gain some profit. Our targeting system will take data from OLData native blockchain of the OLPORTAL application, which means that no company or individual will be able to keep this personal information of users to conduct some targeting campaigns. All data will stay confidential and safe. Besides, the user who sees an advert will be also pleasantly surprised by the possibility to earn some OLCF without even doing anything substantial. He or she will get some profit for the ad viewing. The advertiser will have the opportunity to target his or her adverts more precisely as OLPORTAL has the function of binding social media’s and messengers’ accounts to the application. That is why OLData part of our blockchain will provide targeting system with more precise and broader information.However, the main question for us as developers and devoted team of OLPORAL is that what is the actual benefit of OLTarget for the entire project and our community. Let’s have a closer look at this subject matter that is fully disclosed in next paragraph.Why Does OLPORTAL Need to Have OLTarget?Every little update and feature added to the host of finctions of an application should serve a certain, important and crucial role for any project, or, to put it more simply, it should bring a certain practical value and benefits to the project. We can single out several advantageous points of why OLTarget should be embedded into OLPORTAL:1. OLTarget conveys benefits not only for users by monetizing them for having viewed an advert but also it brings an enormous profit to our project as well. In fact, an advertiser pays a certain price for his targeting campaign and the part of these funds are directed to the viewers/users, another part of the money goes to the OLPORTAL application for using our OLTraget and our OLData. So, this is one of the ways of OLPORTAL’s monetization.2. The previous point leads to the growth of the market capitalization by having got enough income from OLTarget.3. Thus, OLPORTAL will boost its attractiveness to the investors because the growth of the market capitalization will prove the reliability of the project and its potential success across the world.4. If the project gets a great amount of money invested by interested people, OLPORTAL will be able to realize announced set of features of our project in the very near future.5. Besides, OLTarget is a great tool for attracting new users. The ability to view adverts for some payment is a titbit for everyone. The more users OLPORTAL has, the more advertisers will have our OLTarget service.As you can see, the advertisement is not just the engine of the progress, it also brings an enormous profit to the OLPORTAL application and its community using the messenger. The success of each of you makes our project prosperous as well. Now OLPORTAL’s beta-version is already available to download for free on Google Play and AppStore. The function of OLTaget has not been implemented into the app yet. However, everything can change soon! Download OLPORTAL and use its present functions right now!