
Flicker Network Community Q&A #2The Flicker Network token sale is in progress.IntroductionAs the Flicker community grows across various social media channels, there is a need to collect information in a single visible, accessible location for easy reference. Medium is that forum for Flicker, and the weekly Q&A series discusses some of the notable questions received in the past week.Questions have been edited for readability and concision. To submit a question for the next Q&A, email contact@flickernetwork.com or join our Bitcointalk thread.Q&A continues below.Question (received via Bitcointalk + email): What plans are there to grow the Flicker community and ‘make more noise’?Answer: Although the team does not intend to permanently lead Flicker, it would be remiss to leave the project to its own devices until sufficient resources and time are available for community ownership of the Flicker Network to stand on its own. However, with the product launch less than two weeks away, the undisputed priority is ensuring successful delivery of The Genesis. The most tangible benefit of increased publicity at this point would be increased token sale proceeds, which while useful is not sufficient to prioritize community development over the preparations in progress for The Genesis to go perfectly on April 30.The best time to redouble efforts to make a splash in the crypto space comes immediately following The Genesis, when publicity can bring new users directly to the working product. The token sale details announcement discusses how funds will be used to maximize exposure, and ongoing community engagement in the form of Q&As and other interactions should drive a healthy public discourse that draws further interest. The largest market opportunity space is to be an early mover among DAGs in the East Asian cryptocurrency communities, and professional translations and community management will go a long way in this regard.With all this said, the strongest marketing is a good product, and the team strongly believes that Flicker has the potential to excel by word of mouth alone. Formal marketing and publicity is intended to jump-start adoption in the pivotal early stages of Flicker’s release, but long-term success will be driven by inevitable recognition of a superior service. Among currency-focused cryptos, Monero is a remarkable example of a community-owned project finding success with a focus on substance, and the Flicker team believes that there is much to be learned from that approach.Question (received via Bitcointalk): How are transactions and node balances kept private while utilizing dPoS voting? Observing changes in voting weights could expose transaction amounts and the involved parties.Answer: Great question! Regardless of the obfuscation of details in the transaction itself, there is still a need to address the attack vector of inferred information via observation of network activity. The user asking the question presents the following scenario, which is a good articulation of the potential issue:“The weight of a vote is equal to balance of node or sum of balances from all accounts that have named [that] node as a representative. So for example if Alice (100 FNT), Bob (200FNT) and James(15,000 FNT) have choosen me (10,000 FNT) as a representative, I have a voting power of 25,300 FNT. Now imagine that Bob has transferred all his FNT to Beth, who runs a full node with 20,000 FNT and is not chosen by anyone as a representative. Anyone observing the network will notice that:My node has a new voting weight of 25,100 (so 200 FNT was sent)Beth’s node has a new voting weight of 20,200 (200 FNT was received)”Flicker has 4 protections against this sort of transaction tracking, which are discussed individually below.Voting weights are only exposed when requiredUnlike Nano, which publicly exposes the voting weight of all nodes at all times, voting weights in Flicker are shared on a ‘need to know basis’. There are two situations are which node weights are required — at the time of a network vote, and at the time of delegate assignment for unallocated votes. Collecting network voting weights requires either trigger event, and only exposes weights at that point in time. Admittedly, it would be relatively trivial for a dedicated attacker to devote resources to continually triggering a vote condition, so this characteristic is not a sufficient defense in itself. When combined with the subsequent defenses, however, it becomes impossible in practice to trace transactions in this way.Voting weights are not solely changed through transactionsNode voting weights can change for a number of reasons, of which transactions are only one. For example, new vote allocations from new non-representative nodes with no previously assigned delegate or loss of representative eligibility can impact a representative node’s voting weight without its being involved in a transaction. For this reason, merely observing a change in a node’s voting weight is not sufficient to infer that it was involved in a transaction for the amount of the change in its weight.Not all wallets are full voting nodesThis attack vector is most applicable when both parties to a transaction are representative nodes whose weights can be checked. If one or both parties is a non-representative whose votes are assigned to another node, then the information available decreases dramatically or entirely, depending on whether the non-representative is the transaction sender, recipient, or both. In the likely scenario of most network users being mobile or other non-representative nodes, the majority of transactions / network participants will not be exposed to this attack vector at all.As an aside, due to a 10,000 FNT balance being necessary to serve as a representative, this is the sole piece of information regarding node balances can be reliably inferred. That said, 10,000 FNT is a paltry sum, implemented to prevent potentially abusive vote accumulation, that exposes no useful information — merely following Flicker Network on Twitter awards 100,000 FNT through the bounty program.Observation confidence declines exponentially with network volumeAs also mentioned in last week’s Q&A, transaction traceability declines exponentially with network activity thanks to herd effects from simultaneous transactions. If the network sees 5 representative weight changes immediately after 5 concurrent transactions, any of those representatives could have been involved in any of those transactions, or perhaps none of them due to other factors impacting voting weights. It is partly due to this advantage that The Genesis launch includes officially maintained nodes sending and receiving transactions, such that this ‘safety in numbers’ is present from the start of Flicker.To conclude, cracking transaction privacy through observation of publicly necessary network information such as voting weights is an obvious attack vector, but one that is strongly defended against through the combination of factors described above. As the majority of transactions will likely involve non-representatives, voting weights are variable for non-transaction reasons and not permanently visible, and an active network complicates transaction tracing, Flicker’s representative node operators can rest assured that their privacy remains secure.Question (received via email): What’s going on with the Nano network? Does Flicker have the same problems?Answer: For context — a few days ago, the Nano development team requested exchanges to suspend Nano activity pending resolution of a network issue related to node syncing and bootstrapping.This issue has not been encountered in any of the tests run on Flicker, including retests of exchange nodes following the announcement by the Nano team. It is extremely probable that the bug was introduced in a more recent version of the Nano codebase than was used to create Flicker, so at this time there is no reason to expect that Flicker is affected. That said, the root cause is unknown, and Nano’s developers are currently investigating the issue. When a fix is released, it will be reviewed and implemented into Flicker if relevant.Of course, given any amount of uncertainty, it would be foolish to not have a mitigation plan in place. Following The Genesis launch and until the issue is fixed in Nano, the network will be monitored closely to identify the emergence of node syncing and bootstrapping problems. Should such problems arise, there will be an immediate communication out to the community followed by potential suspension of exchange activity pending triage of issue severity. Investigation into the root cause will proceed without waiting for work by the Nano team, and updates will be published every 12 hours until normal activities are resumed. Again, it is not expected that Flicker will encounter the same problem; this is merely planning for the worst.About the Flicker Network:Fast. Free. Fully Private. Flicker is the monetary foundation of the blockchain-based future.Website: FlickerNetwork.com Twitter: twitter.com/FlickerNetwork Medium: medium.com/@FlickerNetwork Telegram: t.me/FlickerNetwork