
EQUITYBASE- TRANSFORMING REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT THROUGH CRYPTOCURRENCYINTRODUCTIONFor the past years, real estate has been a very lucrative business for investors. Sadly, much of profit from the investment does not go directly to property owners and investors, but rather some people known as ‘agents’. Equitybase will offer an online diversified real estate investment platform which will be directly accessible to anyone on the platform. Equitybase will give everyone the opportunity to invest directly in real estate, with the liquidity of a stock and earnings of a private equity investment combined without lock-in period and middlemen.Our main focus is to make the process of investing in the highest quality commercial real estate worldwide simple, fast, transparent and of full liquidity. Equitybase platform will be utilizing a Hybrid Market system which enables high annual return of a private market system along with the liquidity of a public market and also make real estate investment quiet cheaper and accessible to a large group of people.EQUITY INVEST Equity Invest will be based on Etherum smart contract that represents the property acquisition which is known as REAL Estate Offering(REO). This contract will have each step stamped in the blockchain. Once a new property asset is entered in the equity invest platform, the information will be audited and distributed among the platform investors. After the property documents has been verified and accepted, information such as price, suggested hold period, target annual cash rate, target IRR, will be published on the platform. Calculation of returns is based on suggested hold period on each specific asset. The system automatically creates all associate data for the contract and the property participations to allow investors to purchase them. REO represents the shares on each property and enables investors to be able to exchange or liquidate their holdings for the property’s participations on the equity exchange platform. Sponsors are responsible for updating property’s smart contract every year. The earnings obtained will automatically be divided and paid in ETH/FIAT to each REO investor according to percentage held. In situations where sponsors decide to sell the property, profits of the sale (in ETHER) will be deposited inside the contract along with all legal documentation of the sale. The REO holders will automatically receive the initial investment plus the ETHER corresponding to the profits of the sale of the property.THE HYBRID MARKET PLATFORM Equitybase’s hybrid market platform is combines the liquidity of public market along with higher rate of return of private market solution using smart contract blockchain technologies. This is to enable users get a higher advantage. BASE token users around the world will be able to participate in our hybrid market platform freely while generating profits, paid in either crypto or fiat currencies. Equitybase’s Hybrid Market platform will offer simple, transparent and direct property investments that promises a higher return.EQUITYBASE PLATFORM Equitybase platform is a Peer-to-Peer network protocol design for digitizing real estate investment into a decentralize system and managed by Ethereum smart contract. We are designing both desktop and mobile app which permits sponsors and developers to list and update property status.EQUITYBASE REVENUE Equitybase will obtain up to 2% of net profit proceeds from general income and above 2% from capital events. A 1% fee will be charged for platform listings for real estate developer and sponsors interested in listing their prospective properties on our platform. Investors and sponsors who want to avoid charges can obtain equivalent amount of BASE token value.EQUITY EXCHANGE Equity Exchange offer investors an opportunity to buy and sell asset holdings on investment made on Equity Invest which is similar to stock exchange. Prices will be adjusted based on each asset holding since most project increase closer to execution date.EQUITYBASE ICO BASE: EquitybaseERC20 Token A capped pre-sale of BASE token will start on 02/08/2017 to 02/21/2018 at a discount rate of 40%BASE token sale will be conducted via smart contract and fully audited by Coinfabrik to ensure the security of the ICO process. Public ICO of BASE Token will begin on 02/28/2018 and end on 05/22/2018 with initial discount of 30% Discount rate will be lower in increments of 5% weekly over the duration of the ICO sale. Minimum contributions during the public ICO will be at 0.001 ETH. Transfer rate is set at $0.28/Per BASE Token.Pre-ICO 1st Week ICO 2nd Week ICO 3rd Week ICO 4th Week ICO 5th Week ICO 6th Week ICO 7th Week ICO 40% Discount 30% Discount 25% Discount 20% Discount 15% Discount 10% Discount 5% Discount 0% DiscountTeam MembersMORGAN CHAN - Founder/CEOGeneral partner at Sappire Equity (a commercial real estate development with $100M AUM). CONNIE YIU - CMOPreviously at Dollar Shave Club as social media marketing manager and Marketing Manager at Newegg.CHANDLER GUO - Chief advisor Angel investor in Bitcoin and Ethereum. DENNIS LIU - Senior Software EngineerLIN FENG - Python/API developerSEAN LIU - Front End DeveloperFARES CORDOVEZ - Smart Contract DeveloperTRUSTIN CHEUNG - Community ManagerLOIS LI - General counselADVISORY BOARDVINCENT PETRESCU- crowdfunding AdvisorBOOYON CHOI - legal advisor EDUARD GUBARIK - Commercial Financing AdvisorCHRISTIAN ROKITTA – Fintech AdvisorRead more about our project on Our website: https://equitybase.co/Whitepaper: https://eqiuitybase.co/equitybasewhitepaper1.pdfContact us onFacebook: https://facebook.com/equitybaseTelegram: https://t.me/equitybaseANN thread: https://bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=2965628My bitcoin profile : http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1982533