
DEHEDGE WEEKLY MARKET DIGESTWHAT’S HOT ON CRYPTO MARKET THIS WEEK?Overall Market AnalysisThe evolution of the crypto markets over the last few days, and particularly since Thursday April 12, 2018, could lead us to think that the so-called”Crypto winter” is over. Indeed, the crypto market is finally showing some signs of recovery after a disastrous first quarter.According to CoinMarketCap, the total market capitalization of all cryptocurrencies jumped above $300 billion on Thursday and even reached $337 billion on Monday, April 16, the highest level since March 24th, 2018.The reasons for this recovery are many, but one of the most commented is probably the recent heightened interest in the crypto markets from institutional investors, resulting in new inflows of money, realized or yet to come. For instance, on April 6th, 2018, news broke that Soros Fund Management might start to invest in cryptocurrencies. According to Fortune, Adam Fisher, head of macro investing for Soros Fund Management recently received internal approval to trade cryptocurrencies. In addition, on April 10, 2018, Venrock, the Rockefeller family’s venture capital businesses announced a partnership with cryptocurrency investor group CoinFund.Another reason to the recent Bitcoinrally may be the approaching deadline of April 17, 2018, which will end the US “tax season”. With that in mind, this could explain the fact that some investors are now deciding to come back to the crypto marketsBitcoinLast week, the Bitcoin pricewent through a significant increase from$6,900 to $7,770 (+12.6%)within just a 30-minute period. Some market actors feared that a strong correction would occur instantly, as the massive recorded buy volume was unexpected to most. However, contrary to the predictions of some analysts, the price remained strong for the following days, and evenreached$8,350 on April 15th. On Monday,April 16th, the price is down again to around $8,000 (+16% on 7 days).AltcoinsEthereum’s native cryptocurrency, ETH, appreciated 26% on the week (Monday, April 9 to Monday, April 16).In the meantime, a look at the performance of the top 20 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization reveals that a number of these altcoins havesignificantly outperformed their peers. Among them, the top 3 increases over the last 7 days are for IOTA,Cardano, and OmiseGo (+57% for each of them).ICO marketsThe Financial Research Firm, Autonomous Next, recently conducted a detailed analysis of the ICO market over the first 3 months of 2018, comparing the data to the full 2017 year, and the results are interesting. It appears that so far in 2018, already $3.5 billion of capital have flown into tokens sales in January, February and March 2018 (as compared to $6 billion for full year 2017). However, it is important to underline that there has been a clear slow down on the first 3 months relative to November and December of last year. This is partly due to the fact that a lot of the projects which were planning their ICO (pre-sale or public sale) during Q1 2018, decided to postpone their token sale, waiting for better market conditions. In addition to that, some high profile companies have also been choosing to distribute tokens via airdrops instead of running an ICO.It is no secret that the ICO market is highly correlated to the health of the crypto market in general. Given the recent rise in the crypto markets, we can expect a number of ICOs project to recover trust in their capacity to raise funds again, and this will most probably lead to a new upward trend.To further illustrate this, a quick look at the growing number of upcoming ICOs (including both the pre-sales and the public sales)listed on websites such as ICO Alert or ICO Tracker, seems to show that the ICO market may now be at the beginning of a recovery phase.Crypto fundsFinally, a quick analysis atthe “crypto hedge funds” shows a slow down in the last 3 months. Out ofthe 251 hedge funds which can be qualified as “crypto hedge funds”, 175 were launched in 2017, and only 26 over the first 3 months of 2018. This tends to demonstrate a slow down, and can easily be explained by the fact that the last 3 to 4 months, the environment has been more difficult for raising funds. On top of that, it is not always easy to identify which funds are investing into cryptos, for example many traditional venture funds may be starting to buy tokens, but are not always willing to immediately communicate on this. http://ruscryptonews.ru/…/386-ico-v-pravovom-pole-chem-ober…#money #moneymaker #capital #ico #blockchain #cryptocurrency#cryptocurrencies #icos #hedging #blockchains #risk #risks #hedge#technology #science #bigdata #innovation #techtrends #dehedge #MVP