
Top 5 Countries: Crypto Friendly & Anti-CryptoThe interesting thing about cryptocurrency is the decentralized feature that is inherent in the system known as Blockchain. The fiat currencies that the countries of the world have implemented come with no concern about the devastating effects of printing more currency (fiat money) and nothing to back it up other than government and International Monetary Fund (IMF) policy.The fiat system works well for now as fiat money is controlled by each countries Federal Reserve Banks and the IMF. However, cryptocurrency is a decentralized system that by its very nature is not controlled by any one country. As Banks and governments try to figure out how to control this emerging technology, they are also trying to figure out what to call it. Are cryptocurrencies a commodity, real money or an asset? Coming to settle on the answer to this question is not easy.Governments are now at a crossroad as the potential to replace fiat currencies with cryptocurrencies can become a real possibility. It is a disruptive technology and stands to benefit third world countries immensely. With that being said, governments around the world are looking at this phenomenon and looking at how to deal with it. No matter what country you are from, cryptocurrency is like the ultimate offshore account to any country in the world.Basically, they have three options.· Figure out how to tax crypto· Figure out how to regulate it· Figure out how to create their own regulated crypto that people will want to invest in or perform commerce in.Since this is still an open-ended question as to governments response then the best we can do is look at the 5 countries that at this point are in some way or fashion crypto friendly and the 5 countries that are anti-crypto. Let’s take a look, shall we?Crypto Friendly CountriesThe European Union (EU) looks at cryptocurrencies as what is known as “convertible decentralized virtual currency” and as such has cautioned the banks within the EU to stir clear of them. However, Germany seems to take the approach that cryptocurrency is simply money that is private and very much the same as a foreign currency to Germany. Any trading that occurs is simply a private transaction which is a tax-free activity under Rule 23 EStG. Sounds friendly enough!Denmark is seeking ways to truly be a cashless society. Consequently, your trades in cryptocurrency are not taxed as income and they are also not taxed as capital gains. Wow, this is like the best of both tax worlds!Singapore is probably not sure what to call cryptocurrency as to this government it is neither a currency nor a commodity. It just is well, something. It appears that individuals are not taxed on their activities involving cryptocurrencies and businesses involved in digital currency are only taxed on their profits.Belarus has legalized cryptocurrencies and until 2023 it is completely tax-free on the crypto mining, the trading activity and on any capital gains. Now here is a small country that has it together and could help unleash innovation globally.In Slovenia, when it comes to cryptocurrency trading there are no capital gain taxes. However, if an individual is receiving their income in Bitcoin, then it is taxed. So basically investors are not taxed but income in cryptocurrencies are taxed if that is how an individual is paid for services rendered. This has been on the books in Slovenia since 2013.Anti-crypto Friendly CountriesWith the exception of maybe Germany, it appears to us that the European Union as a whole is not cryptocurrency friendly as the union has instructed banks to not participate in this virtual currency. They have instructed all cryptocurrency providers to adhere to the same practices requires by banks especially in the area of “knowing your customer” and tracking suspicious activity. We are sure this is under the guise of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures, but that does create a problem with the anonymity as part of cryptocurrency Blockchain technology.The United States of America at this time looks at cryptocurrency as property, to be taxed like any other property on the sale or exchange of property. It also will employ the Bank Secrecy Act in some cases and in some cases will see ICO as a security. This is truly where the laws are very vague unless you happen to get caught in the cross-hairs of some overzealous regulator at the IRS or Financial industry sector. At least that seems to be the case for now.China allows you to trade cryptocurrencies between individuals but has banned them on any exchanges. Basically, you can hold them as an individual and trade them with friends and family but that is about it. You may as well be trading baseball cards!Russia basically looks at cryptocurrency as suspicious and would be looked at as a potential criminal, terrorist or even money laundering activity. They are no comrades to cryptocurrency as of now, so to speak.In South Korea, only real name bank accounts are free to trade in cryptocurrencies. This again somewhat defeats the anonymity of Blockchain technology. The South Korean government is stating that they desire to minimize the use of cryptocurrency by criminal and terrorist organizations.This list of countries is not an exhaustive list but is at least intended to give you some insight into the trends of cryptocurrency as it develops globally. Since cryptocurrency is not a centralized form of currency, it is not the fiat money that nations of the world use. One suggestion might be that if you are a cryptocurrency investor, you might consider using an exchange that is not in your country of domicile. That may keep it just like any other offshore account relative to your country of citizenship.The information in this article is considered accurate at the time of the writing and is not to be considered as legal or financial advice. We urge you to do your own due diligence and seek professional legal and financial counsel.ICODASHBOARD.IO is the leading ICO management platform to run and promote your ICO or token sale. Visit us at https://icodashboard.io for more information.