
Top 10 Cryptocurrencies in the worldCryptocurrencyCryptocurrencies are becoming a matter of interest to the investors as well as common man. But what exactly are cryptocurrencies? Cryptocurrencies are a currency of future, and is basically a digital asset which is designed to work as a mode of transaction. And this is done using cryptography which will secure the transaction along with verification of transfer of assets. Since now you know what a cryptocurrency is, let us have a look at some of the cryptocurrencies present in the market. The list below gives info about the top 10 cryptocurrencies in the world:1. BITCOIN BTC :Bitcoin tops the list becoming the number one cryptocurrency in the world. Presently, 1 bitcoin equals around 5, 89,000 INR. Bitcoin was created in 2008 due to the financial crisis and currently the token has rose to unimaginable popularity. It has a predetermined token limit of 21 million out of which around 16.8 million BTC tokens are in circulation. It was created by group of individuals under the under the alias name of Satoshi Nakamoto. As bitcoin is attaining rapid increase in its value, the critics of it are worried about its volatility and less transaction fees.2. EHTEREUM ETH:At the second number after Bitcoin comes Ethereum ETH in the crypto community. It is often considered as the main competitor of Bitcoin. But it is different from Bitcoin in the fact that it was developed as a world computer for the decentralised development of apps which will eradicate the third party companies like Google or Apple. The apps which are developed on Ethereum are distributed on public platform. The miners hereby need to earn Ether in order to fuel the network. The co-founder of Ethereum claims that ETH has the potential to become a more programmable money as compared to bitcoin which laid the foundation for block chain technology.3. RIPPLE XRP:In the year 2017, Ripple stood nowhere but the January of 2018 it rose up considerably and secured the third position after Ethereum. Although Ripple seems to be an emerging competitor of Bitcoin, but its functioning is completely different from that of bitcoin. It has a centralised transaction network used by banks unlike that of Bitcoin. The money in Ripple is transformed to tokens called XRP on one end and then back to currency desired by the user. Recently it had a value of around $52 billion.4. BITCOIN CASH BCH:All the limitations to bitcoin BTC lead to the creation of a new fork in the block chain. The fork resulted in the birth of a new token which had all new rules and regulation, and a new block chain too. BCH has managed to be in the top 10 currencies of the world without overcoming bitcoin in terms of popularity. As of now, it has an estimate to be worth over $28 billion.5. CARDANO ADA:Of many other platforms to deal in digital money Cardano is one of them. Its digital token is named ADA. Its working is similar to that of Ethereum. It too has a decentralised network where it runs the apps on the block chain. It was created by Charles Hopkinson in 2015. 95% of its initial coin offerings came from Japan; hence you can also call it Ethereum of Japan. It has an estimated worth to be of around $16 billion. Some group of scientists having expertise in block chain technology are managing the Cardano.6. STELLER XLM:The Ripple co-founder Jed McCaleb and Jouce Kim (former lawyer) founded Steller in 2014 due to some internal disputes with Ripple. The Steller network is completely open source. It has an estimated worth to be of around $10.5 billion.7. NEO:It aims at creating smart contracts and assets on the block chain. NEO is an emerging platform and has similar working as that of Ethereum. Although it is using technology as that of Ethereum but it aims to be a platform for a new smart economy. It has an estimated worth to be of around $10.4 billion.8. LITECOIN LTC:It is almost similar to bitcoin and follows a peer to peer direct cryptocurrency. But it is some steps ahead of bitcoin in terms of transaction speed which are much faster in Litecoin. Moreover it also has 84 million token limit as compared to that of bitcoin having 21 million token limit. It was launched in 2011 and was ranked at number 2 among other cryptocurrencies in the world. It has an estimated worth to be of around $10 billion only.9. EOS EOS:EOS was founded by Dan Larimer and was launched in 2017. It aims was to overcome Ethereum’s limitations of low number of transactions per second which as per the founder of EOS was not ample for supporting the internet of things for future. It supports around 50, 000 transactions per second which is far ahead of Ethereum. It has an estimated worth to be of around $9 billion.10. NEM XEM:NEM is another cryptocurrency having its signature token XEM. It serves as an server infrastructure. It was built on the Eigentrust ++ algorithms. It holds to push the block chain technology further and speed up the process. It has around 8.99 billion XEM tokens in circulation. It has an estimated worth to be of around $8.5 billion.