
KORONA COIN. CROWN YOUR LIFE.Developing the most reliable bias free, decentralized marketplace based on the revolutionary Lightning Network technology. Be always in control with the Korona Coin.WEBSITE | TWITTER | FACEBOOK | TELEGRAM | WHITEPAPER | REDDIT | BOUNTY |HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE KORONA COIN ICO?Step-by-step guide (Using the Korona Wallet App)Step 1.Download the Korona Coin Wallet Desktop Application (Available for Windows and MAC OS)Step 2.Create a new wallet in the Korona Desktop Application with only a few clicks (click here for the step-by-step guide)Step 3.Complete the KYC registration (by specifying your newly created Korona Wallet address)Step 4.Transfer some Ethereum to your newly created Korona Wallet addressStep 5.Purchase Korona Coins by pressing the “Buy KORONA” button in the Korona Wallet AppFEATURESIn the current blockchain payment systems mainly investors can benefit. Transactions bring real values only above a certain amount of tokens. Instant payments can not be effected, fast transactions are expensive. Due to technology limits Bitcoin cannot support the daily activities of ordinary users and businesses, also Ethereum’s efficiency is limited. Both the number of cryptowallet-users and the crypto-to-crpto transaction portion will grow fast if and when the ordinary citizens and businesses will gain confidence and also they will find their benefits in using cryptobased payments and services. In the newly established CRYPTO ECONOMY 2.0, we believe that, for immediate impact, the focus is partly on new technology, and partly also on new commercial platforms and a complete blockchain business model that make the most use of the cryptocurrency, our newly estblished Korona Coin.What Is The Korona Ecosystem?The Korona Ecosystem is a complete functioning network of various applications and features to support private and business users in using the benefits of blockchain payment solutions. The Ecosystem’s main components:• Implementing a brand new digital payment technology• E-commerce payments• Wise product and market selection• Korona payments in shops• Exchange• Integrated service packages• Businesses wallets• Integrated marketing support• Short term volatility temperingPrice reductions for usersWhat Is Korona Coin?Korona Token is a utility token that enables frictionless transactions of a wide range, while it functions also as a medium of exchange and a store of value. Korona will be able to used to purchase goods and services within the Korona Ecosystem.Why Would Korona Transactions Be Faster And Cheaper?For Korona token transactions Lightning technology solution will be used which shall be faster and cheaper then ordinary blockchain transfers.When Can I Start Using My Korona Tokens For Purchasing Goods And Services?We are testing a solution to enable the token usage already during ICO process. You will be already able to purchase some goods in three EU Member States. Naturally, with an intensive market build up this list will be later significantly extended.Which Entity Issues Korona Coins?Korona Coin tokens will be issued by a not-for-profit foundation under the laws of Switzerland. Korona is subject to audit under Swiss regulations.When Is The Korona Coin ICO Taking Place?The Korona Coin ICO start is scheduled for 26th March 2018.Originally published at bounty-bitcointalk.blogspot.com.