
Progress in Financial Inclusion, Possibilities for Sub-Saharan AfricaThe long awaited World Bank Global Findex 2017 database, which provides financial inclusion indicators, was released just over a week ago. Expectations were high considering that it had been three years since the last database, and many developments had taken place over that period in different regions around the world, with policy changes, new ventures and studies, and financial technology solutions deployed. Positive results were anticipated and confirmed. Financial access, one component of financial inclusion, notched up globally and in Sub-Saharan Africa. Globally, adults with financial access increased from 62% to 69%, while in Sub-Saharan Africa the level increased from 34% to 43%. 515 million adults globally obtained an account during that period, dropping the financially excluded adults to 1.7 billion. The number of adults with financial accounts in Sub-Saharan Africa has almost doubled over the past six years. I specifically mention Sub-Saharan Africa as it is my regional focus on financial inclusion.Extrapolating from the three recorded levels of financial access (2011, 2014, and 2017), one may conclude that the World Bank’s goal of Universal Financial Access by 2020 is not achievable considering that it is only three years away. The number of adults globally with financial access in 2011 was 51%. Though it can be assumed that the solutions deployed and policy changes over the past years will generate significant results leading to a jump in financial access by 2020, various institutions and Governments cannot be complacent, more resources and investments are required to ensure that the goal is attained. There are also the related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs or Global Goals) put forward by the United Nations to be achieved by 2030. Financial inclusion is a prime enabler of eight of the seventeen SDGs.While discussions on the current global level of access and possibility of attaining the 2020 goal are relevant, we need to look deeper into the details, the levels of access and usage of financial services in different countries, possible factors driving those levels of access and usage, and the extent to which financial services are inclusive and each segment of the population adequately served.Financial Access, % of Adults by Region; Source: World Bank Global Findex 2017The ultimate goal of financial inclusion is financial health, which will indicate that the priorities of each stakeholder should go well beyond financial access. Relevant financial services need to be available. Individuals who gain financial access need to know how to and desire to use financial services, they also need to be aware of their rights and capably navigate and negotiate terms of those services, and be able to integrate those services into everyday living. Beyond financial inclusion, supporting services and infrastructure such as quality education, health, and affordable housing need to be available and accessible.Though the number of financially excluded adults has dropped globally, the gender gap, men having greater access than women, has remained high at 7%. The gap in Sub-Saharan Africa widened slightly over the three years to 11%. This no doubt calls for an increased pursuit of a gender-focused lens in developing financial inclusion programs and solutions. Other gaps, rich vs. poor, young adults vs. older adults, rural vs. urban indicate areas to target in tackling economic inequality and spur economic growth.Financial Access Gaps, % with Accounts; Source: World Bank Global Findex 2017Some countries showed strong and positive results; as such, practitioners will look to glean relevant insights from programs and solutions deployed in those countries and see what can be tailored appropriately for other countries. Two notable mentions are India and Namibia, their current levels of financial access are 80% and 81% respectively, with over 20% of adults having an account for the first time during the last three years. No doubt India’s Aadhaar and Universal Payments Interface frameworks contributed to the increase in that country. Unlike India where the increase in financial access was almost entirely driven by financial institutions, Namibia saw a significant jump in mobile money accounts. India narrowed the gender gap considerably from 20% to 6% while Namibia closed the gender gap.Looking into Sub-Saharan AfricaAfrica, with many countries, showed quite a variation in current levels of financial access and changes from 2014. Though additional 9% of adults in Sub-Saharan Africa gained financial access, moving the overall level to 43%, the percentage of adults that gained financial access for the first time was much higher in a number of countries, some saw their level of financial access move beyond 50%. They include Gabon, Ghana, and Uganda. The robust gains for those countries were driven mainly by mobile money accounts.The high level of mobile phone subscription in Sub-Saharan Africa, at close to 72%, indicates a significant opportunity to increase financial access and provide adequately tailored financial services. Only a handful of countries had mobile phone subscription less than 60%. As mobile phone prices continue to drop, the level of subscription is only going to increase.Results for Nigeria are troubling considering that it is Africa’s most populous country and its largest economy. The level of financial access dropped, with 40% of adults having a financial account from 44% in 2014, the gender gap widened to 24% from 20%, and similar gap for income levels — poorest 40% vs. richest 60%. Despite mobile phone penetration in Nigeria, at 86% subscription level, mobile money has not taken off as observed in Ghana, I discussed reasons and mobile money framework differences between the two countries in an article I wrote last year.Further Opportunities in Sub-Saharan AfricaThough financial inclusion is deemed an enabler to achieving financial health, the key reason given for the inability of adults in Sub-Saharan Africa to open an account, at 51%, was insufficient funds. While some of that could be attributed some people having minimal income and living ‘hand-to-mouth’, some of it could be requirements of financial institutions on minimum balance or fees associated with the accounts, there could also be the perception of financial accounts being geared towards those with higher levels of income.No Account — Top Five Reasons; Source: World Bank Global Findex 2017This also indicates that while mobile money has enhanced financial access to a great degree and still shows much promise, it can only go so far. An enabling environment has to be created with opportunities to allow people fully reap the benefits from or monetize their resources. The fact is that those classified as poor do indeed have resources, be it creative and physical abilities, ideas, skills, land or livestock. A woman who harvests shea nuts and makes shea butter in northern Ghana only realizes a minute fraction of the amount generated from sales of cosmetic products and medicinal ointments in higher income countries.When an individual gains financial access, it is natural to expect that financial services will be available and the individual will use those services, such as payments, savings, and credit. Though there were gains in usage, there is significant room to improve. Borrowing from friends and families are much higher than from financial institutions or saving clubs. This can be attributed to different reasons, including the high cost of financial services, awareness, and perception. Results also show that a fair proportion of adults save but outside of financial institutions or saving clubs. These indicate opportunities for financial institutions, financial technology solution providers, and mobile network operators to provide services that contribute to economic inclusion and financial health.Behaviors, however, can be hard to change. Pursuing more literacy and capability programs and solutions blending human element and technology will help, with focus given to groups with greater financial exclusion, such as women, youth, low income, and rural dwellers. The mobile phone has increased opportunities for financial access as well as aided the provision of financial services; the same platform can be used to disseminate information to help with literacy and capability, such as solutions blending audio in local languages and graphics to the extent that the technology infrastructure allows. A greater likelihood of high adoption of those financial technology solutions is possible when rolled out with human-driven programs such as an extensive agent network.