
CryptfunderHow does Cryptfunder differ from other platforms in the digital world? It should be noted that each platform is different and unique in its business approach. For example, some platforms can focus on a peer-to-peer system, but since each system has different methods, approaches, and systems, the results will be different. These platforms can exist in the digital world along with other platforms, but they have different goals and tasks, which makes them unique and different.All in this Crypto team will be ready to provide you with the money you need to grow. When exchanging, they can buy cards (provided by platform A) at a lower price. The platform includes experts in finance and technology who can help them understand which platforms are potential and which platforms. Their idea is to help these new platforms start and develop, exchange discount electronics or even lower platform utilization. For example, platform A focuses on the digital market with its high-security features. Cryptfunder views this platform as something promising and beneficial for future growth.Benefits of CryptfunderWhat are the benefits of Cryptfunder? Yes, it is really useful for both parties. For platform A, they can get new funds that allow them to grow and expand. Meanwhile, Crypto platform can have various investment options and portfolio. Because they know that platform A has good potential, they can expect this platform to be successful and also popular. If platform A succeeds, those in Crypto will also enjoy benefits, including financial benefits.In addition to financial profitability, there are also some expectations and goals that you can achieve from this platform. First of all, this platform encourages and supports the cryptographic community. As much as possible. All in the development team realize that we are entering the modern and digital world, so it will be an undeniable technology. No hidden technologies, including coding platforms.Just because they think they have an idea, they always succeed in achieving a satisfactory outcome and a favorable outcome. Well, if they can not develop the foundation, how can they realize their dreams? Unfortunately, this does not apply to many of these platforms. If they can not do it right, how can the platform follow the plan? The encryption platform is similar to the company — when you can handle it well, you can expand it and expect successful results. Here are some cases that Cryptfunder tried to solve.TokensThe platform will become a good helper in choosing an ICO, Given that a lot of ICO investors have been getting harder lately-and it is more difficult to choose a really good project. Let’s consider the main points of ICO.Token symbol: CFNDThe beginning of the token: 5 may 2018.End of trading on the token: July 8, 2018Token Price: 0,003 ETH for the tokenThe total amount of delivery: 40 million CFNDToken standard: ERC 20Soft cap: 6,000 ETHHard cap: 60 000 ETHThis platform has its own cryptocurrency, known as the CF tokens. They are planning on releasing 40 million of tokens, with 50% proportion goes to token sale. Public sale event may start from 25th of May 2018 and it will last for 45 days. Anyone interested in investing their money and helping the platform grow can always take part in the token sale so they can also join Cryptfunder platform.For more information about Cryptfunder you can visit:Website: https://www.cryptfunder.io/Telegram: https://t.me/cryptfundericoFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/cryptfunder.io/Twitter: https://twitter.com/cryptfunderAuthor: nano1Bitcointalk profile URL: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1840478