
STEMchain Advisor Update: Dr. Kenneth BlankSTEMchain is excited to add Dr. Kenneth Blank to our Board of Advisors!Kenneth J. Blank, Ph.D., has served in senior scientific research leadership roles at universities over the past 20 years. He has focused on fostering “use-inspired” research programs, that result in technology development and commercialization, to promote regional economic development.“In many cases during my career, I have been asked to help develop STEM programs for high school students. I have considered it one of the most valuable ways I could contribute to the future of our young students and to the continued development the workforce for science and engineering research. An educated and creative workforce in the STEM fields is essential to continue making new discoveries that can be commercialized and brought to the marketplace to benefit society. I believe that STEMchain provides an important new mechanism for funding STEM programs to assure that we sustain a creative and vital workforce.”Dr. Blank presently serves as Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of the University City Science Center in Philadelphia, and is a member of the New Jersey Council on Innovation.Dr. Blank is the recipient of the Leukemia Society of America Scholar Award (presently the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society), a Fellow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians, and a Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors. Dr. Blank holds three patents, has authored over 60 publications on Molecular and Cellular Pathology and Genetics and has received numerous grants and contracts from the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Defense.Welcome on board, Dr. Blank!About STEMchainSTEMchain’s core objective is to create a more transparent funding modality for crypto holders to fund to STEM based organizations. STEMchain aims to increase and fortify the trust between a funder and the target organization while simultaneously providing a channel to the growing cryptocurrency market. Built on the Stellar Network, the STEMchain EcosySTEM is a platform for donors and organizations to connect. The Stellar Network provides donations that are fast, transparent, and inexpensive.Connect with STEMchain on: Telegram: https://t.me/STEMchain, Twitter: @stemchainio