
Have Questions about IVY? We Want to Hear From You!As important members of the growing Ivy Project Community, we really value your questions, comments and feedback. We wanted to give you the opportunity to get your questions and comments in front of the Ivy Project team.Over the next week, we are asking the community to submit those questions and feedback via this Survey Monkey link.This will give us the opportunity to centralize and sift through all of this information to better understand some of the outstanding questions in the community and then post a follow-up article in the coming weeks that has a collated response of all your questions from the team. We would also like to do an AMA on Reddit with the team to ensure we can answer any follow ups.Some Common threads.We are aware of several recurring themes via conversation on Telegram (make sure you join for the latest news) and have already started getting more information together thanks to the tireless work of our wonderful admins (thanks team!). To answer some broadly:Why aren’t we listing on exchanges and services such as CoinMarketCap?Short answer is we are working on it! To do these properly takes time and we want to do it right to ensure we are creating long-term value to the project and its token holders.We need more clarity on the product, partnerships, goals & next steps.We are finalizing the details around all of this following the recent Los Angeles team meetings and will be updating the website with more information on a rolling basis from the end of this week onwards. We will be communicating these updates with you through our social channels as they happen.Why aren’t you getting loud and proud around Ivy? What about conferences?We want to get loud and show value to our token holders but we want to do it in a meaningful, impactful way. Yes, we want to shine in the sea of coins in the market, but we want to go one step further and make sure that we are bringing the Ivy Project and blockchain to a broader audience in a credible & positive way that reflects the team, the product and the long term goals of the project.We have also been working through our conference schedule for the team to attend and speak at for the rest of the year. More to come when it is finalized but we can tell you that Ivy President Gary Fan will be speaking on a panel discussing Frameworks to Assess Risks + Opportunities at BankDirector.com’s FinXTech Annual Summit in Scottsdale next week.The FinXtech Summit brings together senior executives from across the financial industry to take a closer look at the implications of fintech on banks while also exploring ways to generate top line growth and bottom line profits through partnerships, collaboration and investments.What are the plans for the team? Will it remain decentralized?We are looking to bolster the team and centralize the office in Los Angeles. The search is on for several roles behind the scenes which we will be listing publicly on our LinkedIn soon. Development will continue via our rock-star team in Poland with close management by the US-based team.This week we hired James Caskey as our VP of Marketing. James joins us following 9 years leading major marketing and communications initiatives at Red Bull North America. He has also spent much of his downtime over the last few years researching and investing in cryptocurrency & blockchain projects and is excited to bring his marketing experience and passion for blockchain & decentralization to help us take our marketing to the next level.—we look forward to hearing from you.The Ivy Project Team.