
DatEat officially announced its next advisor — Tran Le Pham Trung (Y-Group Chairman)Mr. Tran Le Pham Trung won the top businessmen and businesses of Vietnam in 2015DatEat has created another surprising moment in its early stage of becoming a highly potential ICO project and also, the best dating application. After introducing the two first advisors earlier this week, Dang Minh Tuan and Doan Hieu Minh, DatEat continues to introduce the next key person in the advisory boards — Tran Le Pham Trung, Chairman of Y-Group, one of the most well-known multi-industry corporation. Trung is an expert in financial investment and corporation management. Needless to say, his role in DatEat will be Financial Advisor.Trung is currently holding the Chairman of the Boards position in Y-Group Corporation. Y-Group is a huge corporation that owns many subsidiary companies, some of which are also very well-known. The corporation covers a wide range of industries from online media, restaurant, winery, cosmetics to real estate, hotel, resort, etc. Recently, Trung has joined the jewelry market and positioned his brand as a luxurious line of products. It may look as if he is busy enough with his business; however, somehow he finds a way to sneak in even more activities such as partnering up with other companies, advising for new startups and numerous venture capitals.Mr. Tran Le Pham Trung and the Thai Businessmen AssociationIt is very easy to understand why DatEat picked him up as an advisor. Besides being an investment expert, Trung has much more to offer. DatEat is the most comprehensive dating application ever launched. Of course, basic functionalities of an application dating such as looking around, profile matching, communication interface (chat, video call, file sharing utilities, etc.) have to be there, but DatEat wants to go much further than that. The company has integrated many cool features such as activity recommendation, Mentors and also a charity platform. The activity recommendation function will connect users with good and service providers such as coffee shop, restaurant, movie theatre, hotel and so on. Taking care of the financial side for such diverse options is not an easy task but when looking at the portfolio of Trung, it makes perfect sense as he also manages such complicated scenario.So far, DatEat has introduced three advisory positions with really high quality: advisor of Blockchain Technology, Branding and Marketing, and Financial advisor. DatEat is about to arrive at the peak of 2018 as the company is ready for Pre-ICO and their three rounds of ICO in the next few months. They just cannot stop creating surprises, positive surprises to be exact, for investors and users as it has introduced three advisors in a row.In the next couple of days, things may get even more exciting and surprising, so, stay tuned!