
The EMX Token: Unlocking Global Futures TradingAt EverMarkets, we pride ourselves on bridging the innovations of the cryptocurrency world with the established strengths of traditional financial markets to enhance how you trade. One of the ways we deliver on this ambition is the EMX Token, which participants will use to trade, pay fees and access (or offer) leverage.As the crypto trading market expands, participants are increasingly looking to access a broader set of crypto futures to hedge, go short, or take larger positions with less market impact. Additionally, many crypto traders are interested in expanding their portfolio to include more traditional assets while retaining the ability to deploy their cryptocurrencies as collateral.Yet in the current trading ecosystem, participants face a number of limitations. Alt coins are scattered across various exchanges. Traditional futures exchanges only accept fiat currency as collateral. The prospect of having to sign up for additional exchanges or brokerages, convert coins to fiat and pay additional fees deters many traders.We have designed a better way.The EMX Token will enable you to access a wide variety of futures contracts, without the need to go multiple brokerages or exchanges. To obtain an EMX Token, all you need is an existing ERC-20 compatible wallet. It’s that easy. Crypto in, crypto out — there’s no longer any need to convert into fiat currency to trade global futures.On EMX and through the EMX Token, you can trade multiple types of futures — whether it be crypto-based contracts like BTC futures, EMX futures and crypto index futures or contracts tied to more traditional assets like the S&P 500, Brent Crude or Euro/Dollar — on a single platform. This provides a number of advantages:Efficient margining: The effort of posting and managing pools of collateral at multiple exchanges is repetitive and costly. In contrast, as you trade multiple contracts on EMX, your margin will be netted out across your portfolio. This saves you time and costs.Fund faster, trade better: Funding an account on one of the incumbent exchanges or moving funds between venues can take days. This can delay traders when they need to top-up margin or want to execute trades. With the EMX Token, adding and moving funds will be done in seconds, allowing you to act on market opportunities faster, and to trade more efficiently.Stay in crypto: You can seamlessly convert your existing cryptocurrency to EMX Token in order to trade and post margin for any contract on the Exchange. The same goes for withdrawals — you can easily move from the EMX Token back into your cryptocurrency of choice, without delay.In addition to simplifying how contracts are traded, the EMX Token will streamline the way traders access and deploy leverage.If you want to trade on EMX but not hold EMX Tokens, you can contract with an EMX “Margin Syndicate”. In our model, the Margin Syndicate can provide traders with EMX Tokens for leverage, effectively putting up the capital for their position until the trader is ready to exit the trade.All-in-all, the EMX Token will bring a simplicity and efficiency to trading, leveraging and hedging that seasoned retail and professional traders have come to expect. And by tapping the innovations enabled by tokenization and blockchain, EverMarkets aims to eliminate many of the potential barriers that traders face when entering the futures market or seeking to trade.For more about EverMarkets, visit our website, follow us on Twitter, or join our Telegram.