
Korona — A cryptocurrency payment serviceOverviewThere are hundreds of cryptocurrencies traded worldwide with multi-billion USD market capitalization. Still, most of this enormous value is currently “non-bankable” unless it is converted to fiat, which potentially creates a loss for the entire economy. The crypto economy is not connected to the real, daily financial and economic world.The Korona’s Ecosystem provides complete integrated bankable service packages that shall be provided jointly for both private and business customers. Users shall be provided with easy-to-use, transparent and licensed platforms that fulfill their complex needs: including among others wallet management, fast and low-cost payment technology, as well as fiat exchange. Additionally, Korona will provide its users supporting services such as taxation information support, client protection, commercial guarantees, as well as marketing and market access support.What is Korona Coin?Korona Coin is a European based crypto-token, designed for real, wide, everyday use for purchasing goods and services. It will be supported by a new, efficient transfer technology and with a complex ecosystem that includes a wide range of banking and commercial services. Korona will establish the missing link between the crypto economy and the economy of the real world. The Korona’s Ecosystem will provide complete integrated bankable service packages that shall be provided jointly for both private and business customers. Users shall be provided with easy-to-use, transparent and licensed platforms that fulfill their complex needs: including among others wallet management, fast and low-cost payment technology, as well as fiat exchange. Additionally, Korona will provide its users supporting services such as taxation information support, client protection, commercial guarantees, as well as marketing and market access support. The Korona platform will also create a special Korona Market, offering wide range of goods and services for purchases either online, or in actual stores.FeaturesReward System — Earn Korona Coins by sharing your personal referral link.Mobile Wallet — Access your korona wallet anytime, anywhere with our mobile application.Business Wallet — Providing transparency for government entities about your business.Korona API — The Korona API specifically developed for seamless and secure payment integration.Korona Crypto bank — Certified support for the commercial activities of registered business.Marketing Support — Marketing program for companies and vendors that accept korona payments.Fiat Guarantee — A solution for merchants to receive fiat currency without a third party.Instant Pay — Forget about long transaction times thanks to the Raiden Network technology.Personal Storefront — Create your personalized storefront within the Korona Marketplace.Volatility Tempering — Their volatility tempering mechanism will reduce short-term volatility of the market.How it works?E-commerce is booming, but there are still some small-and-medium enterprises that are unable to connect to e-commerce stores. This is due to the perceived high cost and lack of knowledge. The Korona ecosystem will provide an accessible and usable web store platform to be used and accessed by the local businesses so that they can perform e-commerce activities.The ecosystem will provide integrated and complete service packages for businesses and private customers. The users will have a transparent, easy to use and licensed platform that can meet their complex needs such as efficient payment technology, wallet management, and fiat exchange. Additionally, customers will be able to get support services including taxation information, market access support and client protection among other support services.The platform will also provide marketable goods and services that can be purchased online or in real stores. The platform also plans to benefit its users in terms of reduced prices and costs and a chance to earn rewards for those who spend or buy tokens.Token MatrixToken — KOTPrice — 1 KOT = 0.43 USDPlatform — EthereumAccepting — ETHMinimum investment — 0.15 ETHSoft cap — 3,500 ETHHard cap — 120000000 KOTCountry — SwitzerlandThe TeamJean-Marc Stiegemeier — Head of ManagementDr. Tuan Trinh — AdvisorAttila Bustya — Head of Technology DevelopmentIstvan Lorincz — Systems Engineer and Quality Assurance ManagerGabor Hajdu — Legal Consultant and Compliance AdvisorZsolt Kolumban — Head of Software Development/SecurityRobert Balazs — Head of Market DevelopmentVerdictKorona’s Ecosystem provides complete integrated bankable service packages that shall be provided jointly for both private and business customers. Users shall be provided with easy-to-use, transparent and licensed platforms that fulfill their complex needs: including among others wallet management, fast and low-cost payment technology, as well as fiat exchange.The platform shall also provide marketable goods and services for purchases either online, or in actual stores. Finally, Korona shall provide valuable financial benefits in form of cost and price reductions, but also in the form of reward tokens.These features shall make Korona tokens widely accepted and valuable. A new and far reaching token economy will be established, once local and regional trade and sales activities can be supportedReferencewebsite : https://koronacoin.comWhitepaper : https://koronacoin.com/Documents/KoronaEcosystemWhitePaperFinal.pdf