
Newsletter — May 2018What an exciting month it has been! A few weeks ago, we have welcomed the new development team in our office to increase the development power needed to get the new platform ready for the upcoming launch.In the coming months, we are going to constantly discuss the progress we've made with the PSP's (Payment Service Provider), banks and regulators. We will also be developing the new platform using the agile framework SCRUM.Scrum (software development) - WikipediaScrum is an agile framework for managing work with an emphasis on software development. It is designed for teams of…en.wikipedia.orgEvery Sprint (more information by clicking the link above) consists of three weeks of daily stand-ups, refinements and of course programming. The first sprint, called Sprint 0, is already completed. We've discussed the goals of the MVP (Minimum Viable Product), the compliance implications, the target audience we are building the product for, the platform's security, user interactions and much more.Discussing different Target AudiencesLast week, which was the start of Sprint 1, the development team started working on the integration of the KYC process and iDEAL as the first payment option. Already after a few days, we saw connections being made between several back-end modules. Very exciting!Oxy Development TeamA simplified overview of the Oxy platformMeeting with PSPTwo weeks ago, we had a very productive meeting with one of the top Payment Service Providers. They are one of the fastest-growing global acquiring networks in the world and currently providing multiple payment services in 150 currencies. They are headquartered in Amsterdam, with several offices in the USA, Europe and Asia.Needless to say, we are very excited about a possible collaboration with them. We will keep the Oxy Community updated about that collaboration in the coming months and will release the name of the PSP as soon as we have a signed agreement with them.Meeting with PSPAnniversary MeetupPreparations for the Anniversary Meetup are progressing well. We have invited several people who will perform a presentation about their field of expertise. We will inform the attendees about the different modules in our platform, the dependencies, legal matters, PSP's we will be working with, and how that collaboration will work.There are still a few spaces available. If you want to attend, please send an email to: meetup@oxycoin.ioDeadline: May 15, 2018–23:59 UTCTest Release of the Mobile AppSince the development of the new platform is progressing so well, we're working on a test release of the mobile app. This means we will connect the first version of the app to our test network so that our new Test Panel, which consists of Oxy Community members, can make live transactions.We aim to release a demo of this special test release on the day of the Anniversary Meetup!