
Micro-investment in CryptocurrencyCoinseed PlatformCoinseed is a platform that offers investment to users of cryptocurrency easily and users can build portfolios identifiable by using investment applications. The mobile-based Coinseed app, which was officially released on November 21, 2017. The app brings two key features that will make it easy for the investment user, which is a passive investment feature and an active invesation feature.Both features are very exclusive, where users can maintain or change their existing portfolio to another portfolio at a cost of 1% of the total value of the portfolio that has been converted. Coinseed encourages our users to make portfolio conversions by ranking all user-generated portfolios and percentage of returns on the platform. In this way, Coinseed users can learn from each other by looking at other people’s portfolios to get inspired or simply replicate the portfolio. Coinseed app is now available on iOS and Android (App Store and Google Play )Coinseed TokenThe Coinseed Platform has rolled out CSD tokens of 10,000,000 tokens to allow the cryptocurrency community to be part of Coinseed’s ambitious goals to enable everyone to invest in crypto currency. CSD token is the main token in the Ethereum platform community based on Blockchain technology. Here is the allocation of CSD tokens based on predefined plans.Examples of Benefits of CSD TokenThe CSD token holder will receive 50% of the revenue from the monthly portfolio conversion cost. Starting May 1, 2018,. For example, if the total revenue from a portfolio conversion cost is $ 2,000,000 for a given month, then $ 1,000,000 (50% of total portfolio conversion cost) will be distributed to CSD token holders. Specifically, each CSD token will be allocated 10 cents each ($ 1,000,000 / 10,000,000 CSD tokens = $ 0.1). To distribute portfolio conversion costs to CSD token holders, distributors will deposit the amount of ETH required along with each part of the participant on the smart contract. The CSD token holder will be able to obtain funds from contracts to monthly allowances. If tokens are listed on the main exchange, the market price of the CSD token will largely depend on the underlying business performance, as well as the perspective of future growth of the company in the medium to long term. The Coinseed team has established a strong foundation for sustainable, medium-term growth, based on existing products and infrastructure. There are also long-term business plans for further product development.Roadmap CoinseedThe Coinseed Platform team in September 2017 has been developing and launching our beta platform in October 2017. During the beta release, Tim Coinseed has received very positive feedback that drives further enthusiasm. Although the team has accomplished many things in a short time, the Coinseed team has more plans by 2018. Funding from ICO will be a key factor for the following:Increase the scale of Coinseed platform in US and globalDevelopment of automatic bot-trading featureInsurance on managed assetsExpansion of Coinseed teamLegal costsContributed NowYou can invest on the Coinseed platform by purchasing CSD tokens using ETH, BTC, Litecoin and Dash cryptocurrencies. For purchase, terms and conditions visit this link https://www.ico.coinseed.co while for details the Coinseed platform is on whitepaperFacebook — Twitter — Telegram — Medium — Instagram — LinkedinPublished by; Bziir