
WE ISSUE INSTANT LOANS SECURED BY BITCOINSNowadays it is very hard to find a person who has never ever heard of cryptocurrency and blockchain technology. A few years ago these words were synonyms to some unknown operations, usually considered as strange and not legal in a way. I am happy to tell you that now the situation has changed. Today the processes of buying and selling digital currency have become more regulated. As experience has shown, the mostbtrustworth strategy for Bitcoin is “buy-hold”. It is almost impossible to suffer losses using this strategy but players in the market still feel some inconvenience. And this can be easily explained — the market lacks of number of financial instruments for conducting operations with the cryptocurrencies.I have some good news for all of you. Thanks to Moneto platform the problem has been solved! The MTO token is an excellent opportunity for potential project investors to gain access to various services after the launch of the Moneto. The platform provides a chance to take a loan on the security of Bitcoin as fast, conveniently and safety as possible.The other nice feature of the project is that as long as you become a member of Moneto team, you will have a brilliant opportunity to choose the best loan conditions by creating an application for a loan. You can also return the deposit by paying a small commission.Considering this information , I recommend you not to miss Moneto token sale. For 5 MTO you will receive a 10% discount for the interest rate, for 15 MTO — credit period is extended up to three months, and the discount for the interest rate is 20%; finally, for purchasing 50 MTO you will recieve a VIP status which opens access to all the features of the service, including the maximum possible 30% discount for the interest rate, the most extended credit period, and access to the MONETO partnership program.The only thing left for me to do is to wish you good luck. Let the good times begin with Moneto!Now a little about the technical side of the project…The Moneto TokenToken ticker — MTOMaximum token supply — 42 901 786Tokens available in public sale — 30 031 250RoadmapQ1 2018COMPANY REGISTRATION,VQF MEMBERSHIP AGREEMENTQ2 2018PRE ICOTEAM DEVELOPMENT,PRODUCTION READY APP,ICOQ3 2018TOKEN LISTING,PAYMENT SYSTEMS INTEGRATION,APP LAUNCH2019MARKETS EXPANSIONDO YOU WANT KNOW MORE?INFORMATION HERE:Whitepaper: https://s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/moneto-whitepaper/moneto_whitepaper.pdfWebsite: https://mone.to/ANN Treat: -Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Moneto-ICO-210668832840975/Twitter: https://twitter.com/monetoteamTelegram: https://t.me/Mone_toAUTHORBitcointalk usermane: toolsmansBitcointalk link: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1183680Telegram: @bountyman