
Learn about Blockchain: What is Money?IntroductionThis is the first of a series of articles on money and blockchain. Each article is a 5 minute block of stories broken up into bits of facts. I will attempt to keep these short articles as unbiased and factual as possible. The purpose of this series is to bring greater transparency to a subject matter that affects us all. In the first story, Block 1, you can read about how a former financial regulator humbly admitted to not understanding the basics of what banks do. In fact this series has been inspired by a former senior staffer of a financial regulator who too did not know the basics of money and how it enters our economy. I was particularly motivated to begin writing this serial when the former regulator schooled me at length on people’s inability to understand the complexity of money, that being the core reason why we should rely on government institutions and regulated third parties to be our economic guardians. I’ve read the Girl With The Dragon Tattoo, and Lisbeth’s horrific rape by her guardian is a metaphor for what happens when powerful entities are forced upon us, to act on our behalf, and in our best interests. We have lived through financial crises and investigations into misconducts by regulated financial services agencies. I think it is time for us all to put aside 5 minutes every week to learn about money and how it best serves our society, even if government agencies have the best of intentions. Only then can we be informed enough to contribute to a democracy.Block 1: What is Money?Over the next 5 minutes of reading we will define money and explore its origins.Bit 1:Money is only important for what it will procure. Thus a change in the monetary unit, which is uniform in its operation and affects all transactions equally, has no consequences.(John Maynard Keynes, Essays in Persuasion).Money is an instrument that represents a standard of value and can be stored for later use. It is more useful if it has the features of portability, divisibility, homogeneity, acceptibility, stability and security (resistant to counterfeiting). A standard of value allows us to value goods and services in relation to it. Gold is an example of a commodity that was used to measure the value of a transaction. Currency used to be an instrument that represented the value of gold but today instead of representing a commodity’s value, it represents a level of purchasing power managed by Central Banks. The purchasing power of currency is designed to devalue by roughly a constant over time. This rate of decrease is called inflation.The role of Central Banks is to implement monetary policy that ensures that the cost of a typical household basket of goods increases by roughly the rate of inflation. Monetary policy that follows the regime of inflation targeting allows more currency to enter the economy while maintaining its purchasing power of certain goods. John Maynard Keynes advocated this kind of monetary policy as a solution to economic depression. The downside to this type of monetary policy is that it incentivises debt. If this debt is bad, resulting in increased debt-to-GDP, or slow growth in revenue to pay off that debt, the country could experience a devalution of its currency, reducing its purchasing power on a global scale. The ideas of monetary policy and the unwinding of the gold standard have been hotly debated since World War 1. It is important to note that economists throughout history have presented different theories at different points in time and those theories are very difficult to prove or disprove. When it comes to thinking about each ideology it is important to go back in time and understand the point of money and how it best served us.Bit 2: Money has enabled humans to collaborate more widely through trade. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF),“money can be anything that can serve as a:1. store of value, which means people can save it and use it later — smoothing their purchases over time;2. unit of account, that is, provide a common base for prices; or3. medium of exchange, something that people can use to buy and sell from one another.”This implies that money is a medium of exchange that can be stored for later use.Recently I requested a refund from a supermarket. I had made a purchase with debt online (via my credit card). After the online experience went horribly wrong, I asked them to cancel that debt by issuing a refund which is effectively the same as issuing a notice to the credit card company to remove the record of debt on my ledger. They refused to and attempted to argue that I should receive a store voucher instead, insisting that the store voucher is money, equivalent in value to that debt.Applying the definition of money provided by the IMF, this store voucher didn’t satisfy the condition of a store of value since the voucher would have expired 1 year after issue; Nor would it have allowed me to exchange it for goods and services at other locations. Also, I could not have exchanged it for currency or commodities in a liquid market to pay off my debt. Therefore it could not have been equivalent in value to the debt issued against my ledger. Eventually I got my refund but I realised how most of us (including myself and economists too) go through life using money without taking the time to truly understand how it serves us and what it represents. A former financial regulator, Lord Adair, humbly admitted in this interview;“I did not until the last four years really go back to the basics of what do banks do.”This is a profound statement by a senior economist and is not only a brave confession, but an inspiring one. We will look at money creation and banks in Block 2. Now that we know how money is defined, we can begin to explore its origin.Bit 3: Anthropologist David Graeber argues in his book Debt: The First 5000 years, that debt came before money and money came before barter. Barter and cash were used in situations where there was limited trust with a counterparty. These tools emerged as a solution to the problem of debt valuation which was required to settle conflicts arising from unpaid debt. Money or barter was also used to enable transactions between strangers or people with poor credit-worthiness.The British Museum provides a reasonable description of the origin of coinage which is estimated to date back to 700 BC in modern day Turkey. A mixture of gold and silver called electrum was minted to a standard weight. The electrum coins soon spread to mainland Greece.Mundell (2002) estimates that Athens introduced coinage in around 600 BC and Solon, an Athenian statesman was believed to have introduced currency reform to reduce the economic divide between the aristocracy and the middle class. He reversed the decrees of Draco that saw the lower class reduced to debt serfs which allowed debt to be exchanged for enslavement. Solon’s reform involved shifting weight standards of coinage.Measurement techniques and weight would have obviously played an important role in determining the purchasing power of coinage as it would have had to represent a standard of value. But what was that standard and how was coinage measured to reflect it?Mundell (2002) provides a review of the history of units of account. Coins were measured in grains and their weight wasn’t consistent across geographic areas. For example the Babylonic Obol weighed 14 grains and the Phoenician Obol weighed 9 grains. They needed a unit of account to provide uniformity. One theory is that the unit of account in ancient civilisations was an Ox. It was not a good medium of exchange because it was neither homogeneous, divisible or portable. To solve this problem, silver or gold was used. It was believed that the quantity was measured to equal the value of an Ox. Eventually the coins were referred to as an Ox. The theory outlined in Mundell (2002) outlines how the Ox could have become the standard across geographical regions. This would mean that Oxen was the standard of value and gold represented that standard. Mundell (2002) provides evidence that the standard weight for gold coins was similar across geographic locations implying that the standard of value, being an Ox, was uniform across countries. This would have enabled easier trade.A leaving thought, Mundell (2002) states thatSeigniorage is the profit made from money creation. Apart from costs of manufacture, seigniorage is the difference between the nominal or face value of money and the costs of the materials of which it is made. In the case of pure commodity money, seigniorage is zero, whereas in the case of token money, it is virtually unity, measured as proportion of the face value.Today, currency does not represent a claim on a commodity and Seigniorage of a unit of currency is virtually unity. Where do the profits go and which parties benefit and lose from the process of money creation?This genesis block consisted of 3 bits of information.The concept of moneyThe definition of MoneyOrigin of coinage and how it was valued