
AdHive is now LIVE on QRYPTOSQUOINE and AdHive are pleased to announce the listing of AdHive token (ADH) on QRYPTOS (https://qryptos.com).QRYPTOS is QUOINE’s fully digital cryptocurrency exchange and trading platform launched in June 2017.ADH Token is the core infrastructural element of AdHive influencer marketing platform. Advertisers reserve budgets on the platform by purchasing ADH tokens, while influencers are rewarded with ADH tokens for executing their task properly.ADH tokens are based on Ethereum ERC-20 and may be used for many purposes. Advertisers will need ADH tokens to make payments for services provided by the platform: placing ads and getting analytics about brands and objects mentioning rates. Influencers will place a deposit in ADH tokens for applying to ad offers in order to prevent spam. Rewards for placing ads in videos will also be paid in ADH tokens. Community members will be rewarded in ADH tokens for advertising assessment. In order to enforce a proper fulfillment of contracts influencers are required to have a minimum amount of ADH tokens on their balance to have a right to apply for ad tasks. Payments for AdHive Classified additional services are made in ADH tokens. Listing on multiple cryptocurrency exchanges will make ADH Token a liquid currency.AdHive provides a real and effective solution for current market problems. Demand for the ADH token will be driven by multiple marketing agencies along with AdHive activity. AdHive operates on the fastest-growing segment of Internet advertising — native video ad. The ADH token is a utility token. It represents advertising capacity, which can be converted on the platform to contacts with audience. Liquidity of the ADH token will be provided by the Bancor Token Changer from the very beginning and maintained further by attracting new advertisers and agencies. Influencers will be motivated to keep part of their ADH tokens on the platform. The number of long term token holders (influencers, community members, the platform) will grow, while token supply will remain the same. The number of long-term token buyers (advertisers carrying out marketing campaigns) will also increase significantly within the next 2–3 years. Revenues of the company will be stored in ADH tokens, and will be converted to fiat money only according to project development requirements.Project Track RecordThe team are one of the few who managed to sell $5.5 million worth of tokens at the presale stage in just 36 minutes.They sold tokens worth $12 million at the stage of early deposits for whitelist participants before the beginning of the token sale.They had set up an individual hardcap of 5 ethereum to eliminate high concentration of tokens in hands of a small group of people.Vesting (1–9 months) applies to the entire project team, including founders, advisors and major participants who helped in the development of the projectMost of the buyers have not been able to buy tokens at the token sale stage and will get this opportunity after listing.Their official group in Telegram has more than 18 thousand active participants from 50+ countries. Most are interested in AdHive and often mention the desire to participate in the development of the project after the listing.There were written more than 100 articles about AdHive, by such news agencies as Entrepreneur, INC., Coinspeaker, Cryptocoin and The MerkleFor more information, see https://adhive.tv/Facebook https://www.facebook.com/adhivetvTwitter https://twitter.com/AdhiveTvLinkedIn https://www.linkedin.com/company/18266144/Reddit https://www.reddit.com/r/AdHive/Steemit/Blog https://medium.com/adhiveTelegram https://t.me/adhivetv