
New data protection laws set to take effect soon (GDPR)On the heels of all the high profile data breaches of the past few months, the EU and UK have drafted new laws to protect the data of individuals. Current laws for this purpose date back to the late 1990s before the internet and social media dominated digital interactions. What do the new General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) in the EU and the Data Protection Bill (DPB) in the UK cover?The broad cut at the new regulations boils down to this, companies that collect and process personal data must clearly request permission to do that using an “opt-in” model rather than the “opt-out” version common today. This should have the effect of making it quite clear to individuals that permission is being requested and confirmation that you have given that permission.This one requirement will be a welcome change from the practice of burying permissions deeply within user agreements. To compliment this change, users will be able to request and promptly receive copies of the data the company has about them and can more easily take back permission to use their data.Both personal data and sensitive personal data are covered. This is an interesting distinction. According to a Wired magazine article, personal data is anything that can identify a specific individual like name, address, and cell phone number while sensitive personal information includes political and religious views, sexual orientation, and so forth. The article goes on to say that “pseudonymized personal data” can fall under the law. This probably relates to organizations that are identified by an acronym or other unofficial descriptor, but the article did not elaborate.Yes, these changes are aimed at increasing the protection of personal information and identities but prudence in this age of digital capitalism and pervasive surveillance might dictate that we all be careful with what information we share and how we share it. This implies that use of social media perhaps should be reduced and careful scrutiny given to user agreements. Unfortunately, the social media aspect may be easier said than done. According to an article from PCMag, over 40% of respondents to a Pew Research Center survey said it would be difficult to quit their social media “habit.”Keep in mind that your personal data has a real monetary value for both legitimate and illegal uses. If you are interested in just how much, check out our earlier blog post of just how much it brings on the dark web. And practice being cautious about what you share and give permission to share.When you trust CRIP.TO to manage your digital communications, transactions, and data transfers, you do not have to worry over anything being compromised. Best in class encryption and sophisticated hardware combine to ensure your communications cannot be decrypted even if intercepted. We are dedicated to giving you the freedom to communicate fearlessly. So, consider CRIP.TO to gain the best in secured communications and share wisely elsewhere.Look for our initial coin offering (ICO) coming soon. www.crip.toCopyright © 2017–2018 CRIP.TO OÜ