
SHIVOM- CHANGING HEALTHCARE WITH GENOMIC DATA USING BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGYHave you wondered of how global healthcare is changing rapidly? Have you taught of any scientific possible way of handling the sophisticated health issues of our era? The way out is here, embrace it.For this reason, Shivom in collaboration with genomic and blockchain is here to create a global ecosystem to improve our health and well-being. The chameleon nature of current health system has really backed the motive of Shivom to come into an agreement to have realistic genome data in order to make it easier for genetic compatibility for all various kinds of conditions ranging from chronic to acute condition through the production of genomic medicines from the vast genome data. The global outreach of this idea is to be sphere headed the reliable and recognized platform known as the blockchain due to its economic legacy since its inception till date. With this in place all donors of genome data will have easy access to them and would be available to researchers, pharmaceuticals and government agencies whiles donors are rewarded or given tokens of OMX. This means donating to solve health problems whiles paid in addition.With this strategic plans in place just hold your peace and just observe from this golden opportunity with the main goal of creating the overwhelming genome data globally where every contributor will have the sole access and the chance to share or sell. Never be scared because Shivom is here for us through the strong backing of blockchain.REASONS FOR SHIVOMWith the help of blockchain, which is a revolutionary technology with global participation without any boundaries, there will be an open market for people especially to consumers. With this Shivom will be able to provide disruptive genomic atmosphere. The following will factor the reason for Shivom;1. The right to own data by genome donors2. There will be drug modification by pharmaceutical companies per reason of Shivom genome data in order to meet the health needs of required genome3. Individualization of health for patient well-being and lifestyle4. Blockchain will be the only medium which will be rid of unauthorized access5. Genome donors will be rewarded in tokens for making known, their data on blockchain by selling to organizations such as researchersHOW SHIVOM WORKSThe noble team of Shivom have made it so easy by just signing up for Shivom, upload your own DNA sequence or get a kit in the mail. This will help to get much details about the ancestry history so that there will be more personal health details and hidden insight from the raw genetic data. And this will unlock the financial door of donating your genome for other parties involved for profitWHY THIS MOMENTShivom has prospect into the future and have unlocked the key to the conservation of genomic data despite recent decrease in the cost of DNA sequencing by means of creating an ecosystem of genome which will create holistic individualized healthcare accessible to all persons globally. This has made Shivom to critically put in place this medium to provide genome data and the business ventures for the donors as well.MERITS OF GENOMIC SEQUENCINGThe benefits of genomic sequencing include;I. This will help provide the precise course of care for clients with specific conditionsII. Will help healthy individuals or persons to prevent diseaseIII. Will help in prognosis and diagnosis of disease conditionIV. Will make easy or less stressful prediction of risk diseasesV. Will help identify new drug specific target to enhance efficacy and potency of the drug thereby rendering the best effective and efficient medication in treatment of patient.WHAT HAPPENS TO MY DATA?Since your security is our priority, your genomic data is solely yours and is kept in safe custody by the help of blockchain. One can share his or her genomic data by generation of pair key by the help of cryptographic key generator by asymmetric key algorithm. Public keys are encrypted and only holders of private key can have access to genomic data by the donor’s consent. The beauty of it is that, you decide or select who sees your data.WHO ARE STAKEHOLDERS?The genome donor being the right owner and controls who to access the genome will only partner with needed institutions such as pharmaceuticals, researchers, governments by the help of the blockchain serving as the permission-based smart contract for which the required incentive or motivation will be totally secured on behalf of all the parties involved.PROBLEMThe only problem is usually with the limited groups of individuals to provide genome for clinical trial. This makes it difficult to get the required genome data making it very difficult to know the specific response of treatment. This will lead to waste of time and resources.SOLUTIONThe solution is here and Shivom is the first to unveil by the use of genomic data to inform clinical trial in large stock in order to help researchers and clinicians the best way to identify patient who are surely to be responsive and unresponsive to treatment. This will really speed up treatment to enhance well-being and lifestyle of individuals globally.DRUG DEVELOPMENTShivom is currently engaging with special renowned pharmaceutical or biotech companies and clinic research organizations to get access data services in order to provide the opportunity to sponsor a massive genome test. Shivom will facilitate the access of data by pharmaceutical companies to access data as a means of coming up with attractive market access to their product which will directly involve donors.SHIVOM TOKEN AND DISTRIBUTIONSymbol of token-OMXThis will serve as the only token to be used for buying, selling and provision of others services within our domain.DISTRIBUTION3 billion OMX tokens will be distributed990 million OMX tokens will be sold during ICO process90 million OMX tokens will be distributed to the community to grow and Shivom ecosystem420 million OMX will be allocated for founders to support the project300 million OMX will allocated for early backers and network advisors600 million OMX will be secured in smart contract, database and rewards for data generation600 million OMX will be kept by the foundation as reserve fund for future data and its associate non-profit effortsUSE OF PROCEEDSROADMAPTEAMShivom is supported by a noble and hardworking team which are listed below.1. Dr. Axel SchumacherCo-Founder & CEOHe has Ph.D. in Genetics with over 20 years of R&D leadership experience in genomics, epigenetics, biomarker discovery, Bio-IT, aging &longevity and an author of the ‘Blockchain & Healthcare Strategy Guide’.2. Gourish SinglaCo-Founder & COOWith background of investment banking and wealth management and a serial entrepreneur.3. Sally EavesCo-Founder & CMOShe is experienced chief technology officer and a practicing professor of FinTech, Global Strategic Advisor, and member of the Forbes Technology Council.4. Henry Ines Chief Innovation OfficeHe is the global executive with extensive venture capital, and with entrepreneur experiences.5. Akash GuaravCo-Founder & CTOHe is an expert in blockchain, who started the first India blockchain companyThe race is now and the sky is the limit for the new era of healthcare.Be a Shivom and let break through with all health issues with financial freedom.For more details on our project and ideas,Visit our Website- https://shivom.io/Read more on our Whitepaper- https://shivom.io/files/Shivom-Executive-Summary.pdfFollow us on twitter- https://twitter.com/projectshivomJoin our Telegram Page- https://t.me/projshivomLike us on facebook- https://www.facebook.com/ProjectShivomOur ANN Thread- https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3204563.0Our Bounty Thread- https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3183600.0AuthorshipBitcointalk username: MartinAKProfile link-https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=2063181