
The First Blockchain Playground for Social GamesBrainerZ is the world’s first knowledge-based gaming platform operating on blockchain, allowing users around the world to compete in skills-based micro-games and earn BRNZ tokens. We call the BrainerZ platform a “skills-based playground,” where winning depends on knowledge, skills, and curiosity.Website | Telegram | Twitter | Reddit | Medium | Facebook | Whitepaper | Instagram | LinkedIN | ANN Thread | Discord |BrainerZ is the world’s first knowledge-based gaming platform operating on blockchain, allowing users around the world to compete in skills-based micro-games and earn BRNZ tokens. We call the BrainerZ platform a “skills-based playground,” where winning depends on knowledge, skills, and curiosity. BrainerZ will create a new way for people to use their cryptocurrencies, letting crypto-gamers use their mental abilities to gain and expand their crypto-holdings in an online knowledgebased playground full of top-notch crypto-games. The BrainerZ platform uses an interactive feed with a range of social games designed for groups, individuals, and peer-to-peer competitors. It allows users to play high-level games involving skills, strategy, knowledge and gives them the opportunity to gain BRNZ tokens — the cryptocurrency fueling the BrainerZ platform. As a first step, we have built the BrainerZ platform on the Ethereum blockchain, allowing the generation of BRNZ as a standard ERC20 token. This whitepaper presents BrainerZ as a blockchain-gaming platform aiming to disrupt the knowledge-based gaming industry, from the classic trivia we all love to today’s games on web and mobile platforms. Blockchain supports the BrainerZ platform and experience with the trust, transparency, and value that the crypto-community expects. This whitepaper also presents our vision, mission, and long-term plan for making BrainerZ a leading online game platform and a pioneer in the world of blockchain and cryptocurrencies.RiddleZ — The first bounty game on the PlaygroundOur unique riddles are part of the famous Chamizer Riddles, an original and innovative game concept which has been offered and played in Israel for years with unprecedented success. Now BrainerZ will give the rest of the world a chance to play as well. A Chamizer Riddle consists of a short blockchain riddle-rhyme with a solution of only just a few words or less. Additional clues appear at regular intervals. The two words that solve these crypto-riddles can be just words, but sometimes they indicate places in the physical realm that hold hidden treasures.OceanZ, SardineZ, and FishPack — the BrainerZ strategy, peer-to-peer, and group gaming conceptsBrainerZ will often release new competitive concepts in the Playground. These games will involve a wide set of knowledge parameters that will give BrainerZ gamers a limitless and interactive experience in the Playground, with gaming concepts that answer all of their gaming needs and desires. The upcoming gaming concepts we will present includes OceanZ — a decentralized collectible fleet battles game format, SardineZ — a peer-to-peer gaming challenge and FishPack — a group gaming conceptThe BRNZ TokenThe BRNZ token is an Ethereum-based ERC20 token. The token will be the reward for participating and winning BrainerZ crypto-games and allow BrainerZ gamers to play any game featured on the Playground. Other tokens that we collaborate with will have limited functionality on the platform, only accessing simpler or more centralized versions of the crypto-games. The BRNZ token, on the other hand, opens every game and will be the reward in featured competitions. The token will have safety mechanisms to prevent cheating, such as a lock-in time after winning and revocability in this time if fraudulent activity is detected.Private presaleWe will have a private pre-sale for individuals and partners, focusing on those who will own mutual interests with the BrainerZ project. The private presale will begin in April 2018, and we will raise no more than 40% of the hard cap.Public presaleIn May 2018, we will open a registration system for presale registration Every registrant will go on a waitlist for purchasing tokens when the presale starts. We will place no limit on the number of registrants. Bonuses for participating in the public presale will apply and be presented in real-time.Public crowdsaleThe BrainerZ Token Sale will include 60% of the total cap offered to the public (1.2 billion BRNZ tokens). This includes the presale and crowdsale. The crowdsale will be divided into lower discount stages for specified times. Additional discounts will be based on the amount of Ether given.Token Sale PlanTotal tokens generated: 2 billion BRNZ ERC20 tokensSoft cap: $500,000 USD | 50 million BRNZ tokens HHard cap: $12 million USD | 1.2 billion BRNZ tokensToken Sale Phase 1 (June 15th — June 30th , 2018)Token Sale Phase 2 (July 1 st — August 1st, 2018)Token Sale Phase 3 (August 2nd — August 15th, 2018)Lock-in period: August 15th to November 15th, 2018Use of FundsPublic (presale and Token Sale): 60%Bounty Program: 2%Team: 7%Advisors: 3%Community incentives, rewards and reserves: 6%24-month-venture operational budget (vested): 22%Soft cap not reached: Return of all funds to token purchasers & Hard cap not reached: Unallocated BRNZ tokens will be burned out of circulationRoadmapApril 2017 — BrainerZ project launchSeptember 2017 — Playground backend testsJanuary 2018 — Announcement of two main gaming concepts on the BrainerZ Playground, TreasureZ and RiddleZ & Launch of first two quiz games for the community (with link)February 2018 — BrainerZ bounty program launch & First BrainerZ riddle launchMarch 2018 — Presentation of whitepaper — CEO presentation (social media) & Announcement of first partnerships for BrainerZ)May 2018 — End of private presale and start of public presale, Presentation of advisory board — roles, duties and experience & Presentation of Mega-Riddle with grand prize (part of bounty)June 2018 — Start of token sale (8 weeks)August 2018 — End of token sale + Launching of TreasureZ alphaSeptember 2018 — Presentation of OceanZ & 3rd party integrationsDecember 2018 — Release of first version of OceanZMarch 2019 — Release of SardineZ, and FishPackJuly 2019–5+ games available on the BrainerZ PlaygroundPrivate Sale is Live