
How to Contribute to the VLT Token SaleIt’s time (9AM CET to be exact)!Yes — the Vault Token Sale is about to kick off and as you can imagine it’s an exciting time… If you’re reading this, it’s most likely because you are planning to join in — and just in case you have any questions or queries about how to “get into the Vault” — here is a short guide to making your contribution.— — — —For questions or problems with registration, you can contact us here: SupportPlease also follow us on Telegram — but note:WE WILL NEVER POST A CONTRIBUTION ADDRESS ON TELEGRAM.— — — —SPECIAL NOTE:There are several unique steps in the Vault Token Sale process.If you have contributed to a token sale before — please pay close attention to “Step 6: Select payment method.” (point 2a).Step 1. Be sure you have a ERC20 compatible walletThe Vault token (VLT) is a standard ERC20 token. This means that in order to receive VLT after making your contribution, you will need a wallet that supports the ERC20.Common ERC20 compatible wallets include: MetaMask, Parity, Trust, and MyEtherWallet.Please note that even if you intend to contribute to the Vault Token Sale using fiat currencies (bank transfer or credit card) you will need to create a wallet in order to receive your tokens after the sale.If you have created a wallet for the first time — DON’T FORGET to save your wallet password and seed phrase.Step 2. Enter the Vault Token Sale DashboardNow you are ready to “Enter the Vault!”Go to the following URL: https://vault-token.com/You will be asked to create an account using your email and password in order to log in. Again — DO NOT forget your log-in information!Step 3. Fill out basic personal data (name, domicile and address etc.)Once you have created an account on the Vault Token Sale dashboard, you will be prompted to complete some basic profile information. This will include your full name, your domicile and address.Note that this is NOT the KYC process. This is simply the account which will be used to register your interest in participating in the Vault Token Sale and to collect the basic information for the transaction.KYC will be done in a separate step!OPTIONAL STEP: Generate a referral code to send to someone you know you might be interested in contributing. You and your friend both get +5% for the contribution made using the referral code.Step 4. Add ERC20 wallet address to your profileIn addition to your profile information, you will need to add the address of your ERC20 wallet. This is the public key address of your wallet.This will allow your VLT tokens to be sent to you after the conclusion of the token sale.Step 5. Add the amount you wish to contribute.After designating the address where tokens will be sent, you should enter the amount you wish you contribute. At this point if you have a friend that referred you, enter their referral code. This can not be done at a later stage.This is ONLY your desired contribution. You may change the exact amount of contribution after completing this field — however, a different amount may lead to slightly different KYC requirements.Step 6. Select payment methodThe Vault Token Sale allows contributions in both fiat and crypto currencies. After entering the amount you wish to contribute, you will be prompted to select a payment method.See below for details:There are two options for contributing in fiat currency — using a credit card and sending funds via bank transfer.Steps to contribute in fiat:Do KYC (upfront KYC is required for all fiat contributors)Enter card details or carry out the bank transfer as prompted after the KYC processCryptocurrency (Contributors may contribute using Ether)Find the displayed smart contract address where you will send Ether. This is a unique Ether address specific to your user profile. DO NOT SEND ETHER TO ANY OTHER ADDRESS THAN THE ONE DISPLAYED ON THE DASHBOARD. Each contributor sending Ether will receive their OWN address.Do not share your personal contribution address with anyone else.Use this contribution address to send a transaction from the Ether wallet where you hold funds. (DO NOT send funds from an exchange wallet.)Complete KYC (Contributors using crypto may complete the KYC after sending funds — at any time up until the time of token distribution.)A note about KYC:For the KYC process, contributors should prepare:their legal IDa personal photoPlease note that in many cases a short video verification interview is required. This will ensure compliance with the applicable regulations.Both personal, legal ID and personal photo should be uploaded into the KYC form — and complete personal information will need to be filled in.AGAIN — Contributors participating using fiat currencies must complete KYC before sending funds. Contributors using Ether may complete KYC before OR after sending their contribution — but BEFORE tokens are issued.Step 7. Watch for your contributed funds to be displayed in your dashboard profileAfter you have sent funds (either by bank transfer, card transaction or from your cryptocurrency wallet), you should see the funds displayed in your dashboard profile as soon as they arrive.By completing the KYC process successfully you will be assured of receiving your token allotment upon completion of the sale.Step 8. Receive tokensAfter the completion of Phase II of the Vault Token Sale, you will receive your token allotment to the Ethereum-compatible wallet address which you entered when setting up your profile.If for some reason you did not pass KYC — your contribution will be denied and any funds transferred (crypto contributions) will be returned.And there you have it!With this short process — your participation in the Vault Token Sale will be complete.Welcome to the Vault!