
How a miner adds transactions to the blockchain in seven stepsHave you ever wondered how the mining process on a blockchain works, or how your transaction gets confirmed and is inserted into the blockchain? Well, so have I. And since I couldn’t find any clear guide that would take me through this process in detail step by step, I decided to do some research and write my own guide. Here is how a transaction travels from your wallet into the blockchain, in seven steps.Step 1: Users sign off on transactions from their wallet application, attempting to send a certain crypto from them to someone else.Step 2: The transaction is picked up by the according blockchain network and is inserted into a ‘pool of unconfirmed transactions’. This pool is a collection of all the transactions on that network that have not been confirmed yet.Step 3: Miners on the network (often referred to as nodes) select transactions from this pool and add them to a ‘block’. A block is basically a collection of transactions (in this case, unconfirmed transactions) in addition to some metadata. Note that every miner creates their own block, but multiple miners can add the same transaction to their blocks. An example is two miners, miner A and miner B. Both miner A and miner B can decide to include transaction X into their block. A block has a maximum size of data. On the Bitcoin blockchain, the maximum size of a block is data up to 1 MB. However, before a miner can add a transaction to their block, it needs to check if the transaction is eligible to be executed according to the blockchain. They do this by checking the supposed balance of the senders’ address on the blockchain. If the senders’ address has sufficient funds, the transaction is considered valid, and can be added to the block. Miners will usually prioritise transactions that have a high transaction fee set, because this is more profitable to them. Summarising step three: miners on the network select transactions from the pool of unconfirmed transactions and collect them in a block.Step 4: When a miner has filled up their block with transactions, it will start to try and solve a complicated mathematical problem that is unique to that block. Although the problem for each block is different, meaning every miner will work on a different problem that is attached to their own block, the difficulty of these problems is the same. If you wish to know more about this process in detail, please continue reading below, otherwise skip to step 5.