
What is a token and what is it for?Everyone knows that in order to achieve impressive results, you need to use the right tools, and a great number of finance tools are used in the Lendsbay system. Below, we’ll tell you more about one of the most important of these, i.e. tokens.◾ What are tokens?Tokens are a digital version of a company’s shares. Their main feature is that they are multifunctional. In essence, tokens also exist in the real world in the form of discount vouchers, premium services or even as VIP passes at a wellness centre. Like with any shares, tokens are issued to maintain a company’s internal balance sheet and increase the speed of operations between parties to a transaction, but they can also be used for operations in external markets.◾ Tokens in the Lendsbay appLendsbay tokens are available via the Ethereum platform and comply fully with the ERC20 standard. This means that they are fully compatible with all external systems that use this standard (most cryptocurrency exchanges) and can be easily integrated into transactions that use popular cryptocurrencies.◾ The main functions of LBT tokensThe use tokens inside the system is not radically different from the way money works in real life. It will be possible to use tokens to buy any of the services offered by the system. The number of services available will increase in the future, but, for now, the main services include the following:1️⃣ As a reward for successfully repaying a loan through the app. This is how the system encourages responsibility and honesty among borrowers (which leads to an increase in trust between users).2️⃣ As payment for a pro subscription with more app functions and additional profile settings.3️⃣ As payment for related services when concluding a transaction (guarantees, support, collection services).4️⃣ As a hedge against risk. If a borrower defaults, tokens act as an instrument used to limit losses. The system returns part of the money in tokens, which can then be traded on an exchange or used in another way.◾ The role of tokens in credit ratingsAside from their internal functions, tokens are also a universal instrument used to draw up a user’s credit history, which can then also be transferred to other systems. In practice, the use of tokens in Lendsbay makes it possible to present a user’s solvency and to establish all the necessary figures related to loans and payments that you would normally need to provide to a bank. If they wish to, users can also download their credit history to show to third parties or request similar information from potential borrowers in order to gain reassurances regarding their reliability.