
Hello Baltimore!Our team was on the road this week to Baltimore Maryland. We attended the annual PNC User Group Conference, one of the primary ways PNC gathers user feedback on their products and services.We had eight interviews scheduled in an hour and a half timeframe, so it was an intense exercise in preparation and time management.Here are some of my own insights from the interviews we conducted.Invoice and payment approval workflows are importantEvery person we interviewed described the intricacies of their company’s approval workflow. Some go through a single round of approvals, some go through multiple rounds of approvals. Whether it’s due to internal best practices, to mitigate potential fraud, or for auditing, having a “check and balances” for sending money out of the company is a vital piece of the Procure-to-Pay cycle.An interviewee shared her company’s challenges with approvals.“Once the invoice is in the system the assumption is that the person or the department that put it in did it correctly, that the invoice is legitimate and they’ve approved it… It is potentially fraud if the payer is connected to the initiator.”Everything needs to talk with ERPA company’s ERP system (or Enterprise Resource Planning) is the important glue that all the invoice and payment data needs to be sent to and recorded. The gauge for whether a software solution is desirable is the degree to which it can transmit data to and from the company’s ERP system well.One interviewee mentioned that her company went with a fintech invoice management solution because of how well it complimented their existing Oracle ERP system.“We recently implemented a product from a Fintech company that allows us to automate the invoice processing portion of the P2P process… A lot of the functionality that you have with filtering and sorting are very similar in UI to our ERP system. What they do is they enhance what the ERP system is falling short of.”Every company has their own set of vendors that are more difficult to set up payment forFor the large vendor partners, invoicing and payment have been standardized and templated. But for many of the other “one-off” vendors, invoicing and payment require high-touch and manual work to complete the process. For one PNC customer, this was local community partners or international contracted temporary employees. For another PNC customer, this was paying state taxes. For another it was paying telecom companies, utility companies, and parking companies which required making phone calls.Here is an interviewee describing this in greater detail“So you know we have huge suppliers, like everyone does, and they’re templated, they’re locked in. But it’s the consultants, it’s the one-off’s that are hard, someone who is not in a routine template with us, not a regular provider with us.”There are barriers to customers using A/P Advantage, PNC’s invoice management solutionAs part of our project, we are attempting to find a way to “stitch together” PNC’s invoice management solution with their payment solutions. However, our research has uncovered that the customer need for a PNC invoice management solution isn’t fully there. Some companies already have their invoices managed by their ERP system, some have their own homegrown invoice solutions they are required to use, and some are using automated invoice solutions that are specifically tailored to their ERP system. Finding the right product-market fit for PNC’s A/P Advantage will require its own devoted investigative effort.When an interviewee was asked whether they would ever consider using A/P advantage, here’s what they said:“I think I want to actually have a discussion with our ERP system first to see what’s on the horizon for them.“Next StepsThe challenge now lies in how to move forward with the project since the need for a unified invoice management to payment solution has a problematic fit for the PNC customers we interviewed. Perhaps we need a larger pool of PNC customers to talk to to validate these findings. Or perhaps we need a greater definition of the specific customer that would need this kind of unified solution.Our next in-person meeting with PNC is in a few weeks and hopefully we can bring some clarity to the rest of the project’s path after this midpoint chapter.