
App developer? Hydrogen Platform is for you!Fintech as its name suggests is all about financial technology. Fintech aims to disrupt the traditional ways of delivering financial services and provide for seamless operation. Fintech is a new industry that uses technology to improve activities in finance. Few examples are the use of smartphones for mobile banking, investing services and cryptocurrency, making the accessibility of financial services open to everyone.Now this is where Project Hydro comes in. A brief intro to Project Hydro gives that it is part of the parent company Hydrogen. The services and functions provided by this project is mainly targeted toward developers. Project Hydro provides a platform on which you can easily develop your own Fintech app from scratch or merge it with an existing app. Project Hydro also has it that even without a fundamental knowledge of the development of a blockchain, you can create an app that runs on the blockchain that Project Hydro provides. Basically, if you’re building an app, you can do that off the benefits provided by Project Hydro such as· Privacy — You can have private financial services developed seamlessly off their public blockchain· Financial Engineering· Marketing and Support· Multiplicity of solutions — With Hydro you can build multiple apps at the same time· Savings and Investing· No language, geographical and currency barrier — everything is supportedLike every blockchain, Project Hydro runs on a fuel (token), an ERC-20 standard token based on the Ethereum Blockchain. This fuel is called HYDRO. For one to make an app off the platform one needs the token. Now there’s no Initial Token Offering. However, there was a Raindrop — as it’s called — that took place earlier this year in which interested devs and enthusiasts participated, with each approved participant earning 222,222 Hydro tokens. No need to worry though one can get the tokens from forkdelta.github.io, coinex.com and mercatox.com. Total supply for this token is 11,111,111,111 based on the atomic number of the Hydrogen element.You can also get more info on the website: hydrogenplatform.com