
Top-notch electronic payment solutions provided by PayportalNobody knew about blockchain technology a dozen years ago. Today it’s hard to imagine business field without application of blockchain. Just a few examples from FoundICO listing: new kind of travel agency, home appliances for the cultivation of various crops all year round, first unique international charity exchange based on the blockchain technologies and etc.Blockchain technology&cryptocurrency can give impetus to any project (idea) for great leap forward. Driving force of blockchain technology could stimulate developing of agricultural equipment and help people who need aid to share their problems with the whole World. In other hands investors are looking for benefits of volatility market in addition to other kinds of investments. And plenty of cryptocurrencies and ICO listings are extremely suitable for this purpose. Sometimes it looks like casino bets, but nobody cares if it brings significant profit. All the World is divided to crypto enthusiasts, crypto sceptics and people who don’t care about crypto.Using blockchain technology in financial services appeared long time ago. Nobody doubt about reasonability of using blockchain for digital finance transactions especially cross boarder payment transactions.Why Payportal is going to use blockchain technologySo Payportal is making financial transactions easier and smoother by ensuring quick and safe recharges, money transfers and payments through point of sale terminals, web, mobile apps for the ease and financial convenience of Payportal customers and partners.   Payportal was established in 2011. The mission of Payportal is to offer top-notch electronic payment solutions to its customers across the value chain. Payportal team consistently work towards making a difference in the daily life of their end users by providing seamless services, ease of use through a single window payment option and complete customer satisfaction.Payportal is focused on India and based in Delhi region, the roadmap of the project includes roll out to Mumbai, Bangalore, Pune and Jaipur. It’s a huge market with a lot of opportunities. The platform itself is not exclusive and can be used in any country. More than that the platform allows cross-platform integrations, means that Payportal could be integrated with other platforms in order to create a bigger ecosystem.What is the uniqueness of PayportalNow Payportal successfully manage 80 distributors and 2300 retailers. During 2017 Payportal has processed around 500 million rupees in payments that was 45% higher comparing to 2016. And for now it’s just a drop comparing with opportunity of growing in according to the roadmap of the project. Own crypto currency — PPTL, opens a door to retailers into ALL-In-One services PAN India. New chances for customers to use less expensive and more transparent cross border remittances, geographical expansion will rocket the project for new level, exponentially increasing the number of customers and exponential revenue growth accordingly.