
Four ways that you, an average human, can use Blockchain in 2018Are you a government, a finance company, a tech company, or an exceptional human? Get out. This article is for average humans only.Blockchain is less of a new technology than it is a new technique. While most commonly been associated with Bitcoin, cryptocurrency is just one of the many potential applications of blockchain. The way data is stored on the blockchain makes hacking it nearly impossible. If you hear about a hack on the news, like with Home Depot, Target, or Yahoo, hackers succeeded because they had a single target to penetrate. A blockchain database is distributed on computers across the world, so there is no single point of attack.The advent of the blockchain has created a unique opportunity in the US economy. It is forcing the marriage of its two most important economic strongholds — Wall Street and Silicon Valley. Companies pursuing innovation and development in blockchain are receiving multimillion dollar investments in the hopes that one day, someone will come up with a reason that YOU, the average human, will care.I’ll be taking the blockchain course next month at Lighthouse Labs, which I’m told will promote me from average human to average hermit.Do you watch the news? Of course you do, you’re average. The loudest noise you ever hear in the media today about blockchain is usually tied to the rollercoaster that is Bitcoin’s market value.Weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!!!!!!!!!There has yet to be a successful mass market app utilizing blockchain, only niche products. So until that killer app drops, here’s how YOU, the average human, can make use of the blockchain in 2018.1. You want to make a speculative investmentInvestment in cryptocurrency is a boomin’. Whether it is a cryptocurrency, or a technology that utilizes blockchain, a lot of people are hoping to get rich off of blockchain. I dumped all my spare change into Ethereum, and it’s gone from being worth a little to a lot to a medium amount in record time!2. You’d like more vices in your lifeBuying drugs, weapons, or porn has never been so easy! I don’t know what the latest Silk Road imitator is, but rest assured, if you’ve seen it confiscated on TV, you can buy it on the darkweb with Bitcoin. Feel like going from the dark web to the gray web? Casinos are embracing blockchain too.3. You’re a developer hoping to build a killer blockchain appActually, that’s me, but it could be you. Ethereum and Hyperledger seem to provide the most popular tooling. I don’t know what they do, but they both have really nice websites, so I trust them.4. You’ve given up on real animals and would like a cryptographic oneGood news! You can invest your hard-earned dollars in a cryptokitty. People have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on these cryptographic cats, and they just received $12 million in funding, and I just…gah. It hurts.The success of cryptokitties has signaled the start of my slow descent into being out of touch with other average humans. That said, I’m also a hypocrit, as I did built a pointless cat app of my own.Not meow, not everAnd that’s it!Did you check off any of those boxes?No? Then good news! You, the average human, still does not need to give two shits about the blockchain.Unless this guy’s enthusiasm changes your mind.Back to the appIf you’ve been following along, this is part 4. Here’s part 1, 2, and 3.Over this last month, I have built nothing and learned a lot. I’ve been doing tutorial videos to learn about some new technologies that I can’t disclose for legal reasons.Sometimes running a company is really boring, though perhaps that’s because I have no prototype or employees or clients or customers. Work in progress.I did transfer all my websites from paid servers to free servers, which will save me like $15 a month. So hey, things are looking up.Anyways, here’s a NSFW music video I adore to close out the month.