
What to Expect from ICO 2.0“Even though ICOs are happening on a decentralized platform, they are hardly decentralized themselves. They inherently involve many individuals trusting a single development team with potentially over $200M in funding. This has caused a proliferation of fraud and financial abuse.”~ Vitalik Buterin | Founder of EthereumThis year has already seen over $6 billion raised in ICOs. Yet, there are still tons of problems with this new form of funding that NEED to be addressed. Let’s talk about its flaws, and discuss what to expect from the next generation of ICOs.Transparency and TrustBlockchain technology is predicated on decentralized, trustless systems; Why then would investors ever expect to trust a single development team to complete their project with little to no oversight and accountability? The answer is that the ICO is simply a shiny, new form of funding and the public’s understanding and expectations of it are still maturing. 2017 was a brutal year for early investors in the blockchain industry, and unfortunately the true damage done is still being discovered.ICO 1.0 meant financing a development team based solely on the concepts presented in a whitepaper. Little was known about the members of the team, no proof of concepts were developed, no business plans presented. Investors placed their investments in a crowdsale contract with the promise of future tokens. Nothing more.Because almost every development team was trying to circumvent securities laws, the tokens sold were disguised as utility tokens. This means there is no equity granted to it’s holders, and no direct prospects for value appreciation; just pure speculation. Token economics were hardly ever taken into consideration by developers or examined by investors, so the very foundation of value for even a utility token is flawed.In fact, when it comes to investor rights, ICOs are terrible investments. The Tezos ICO provides a prime example of how investors can easily be duped by good marketing and a solid backing team. Now, a plethora of lawsuits (not to mention FINRA sanctions against its co-founder) have left Tezos a cautionary tale of how not to run an ICO, even for a project that had so much promise. Another example of this is the class action lawsuit being filed against the Centra ICO, which was promoted by professional boxer Floyd Money Mayweather, for selling unregistered securities. So where do we go from here?Introducing ICO 2.0: The Road to LegitimacyThe blockchain industry needs to reconcile with it’s sketchy past and put the right foot forward if it’s going to gain respect from the public again. Here are the top 4 things to look forward to from ICO 2.0:1.) If it Quacks like a Duck…Circumventing securities laws is a practice that run rampant through the blockchain industry and has left the public at risk to financial abuse and fraud.“Any tradable collectable (token/coin) whose value is predicated on the work of a third party is very clearly a security and should be treated as such, regardless if the token/coin has utility in a system being or having been developed. A utility token, therefore, is only such if it has immediate utility. Using any token to raise capital whose utility is predicated on future work of others creates a security.” ~ Evan Andrews | Founder & CTO @Self.madeMuch has been made about the standing of ICOs and whether some, or all, of them should be categorized as securities. This is especially pertinent given the SECs recent crack-down on the space over the past year. SEC Chairman Jay Clayton has made known his belief that almost all ICOs are securities, and should be treated as such by government regulators.To alleviate ambiguity surrounding this topic, there must be a clear distinction in the function/classification of tokens as either a currency, utility, or security. As a result of clear delineation between these classifications, investors will have full transparency as to the rights, if any, that come along with their investment.2.) Investment GovernanceProviding investors the ability to govern the teams they have invested in should be a no-brainer. It’s trivial to create a democratic electoral process on the blockchain. Look to see democratization of the ICO to keep these teams accountable to their investors.3.) Milestone Based FundingYou don’t give any team millions of dollars on a concept and a promise, and nothing else. Even in the best case scenario, best to keep honest people honest! ICOs should distribute funds on a deliverable basis which investors determine have been qualified. This immediately removes the greed factor that’s been driving the majority of ICOs. If your team has no intention of further developing your project after funding, you’re completely disinclined to go through all the work of promoting an ICO if it means you need to actually execute on your roadmap to get further funding.4.) A Return of FundsInvestors should be able to call a vote of no confidence if the team’s prospects seem bleak. There should be a democratic method by which the funds originally invested are returned to the current token holders if there is suspicion of foul play or poor progress on the part of the developers. Not exactly a return policy, but a means of mitigating risk.Moving ForwardAs the ICO industry matures along with its investor-base the qualities of ICO 2.0 won’t be seen as an added bonus, but as an integral part of early stage fundraising. The ICO has proven to be a great way to raise funds for early stage startups, but it has also proven to be a broken system ideal for fraudsters. Let’s stop acting as if the ICO isn’t broken, and move forward into the new world of the ICO 2.0.Peace.