
HealthSapiens Crypto-Economics: Programming incentives into the DOC tokenCrypto-Economics: The combination of cryptography and economics to create robust decentralized P2P networks. Cryptography is used to prove things that happened in the past, and economic incentives are used to encourage desired properties to hold into the future. Code and economics are intrinsically interlinked.This is a beautiful thing. The ability to code money has unlocked a world of potential that we were not able to imagine just a decade ago.The reason why this is such a groundbreaking phenomenon is because if you can code money, you can build code that incentivizes certain behaviors and discourages bad behavior.The best Tokens have the strongest incentive structures built into them. The more good behavior that can be incentivized, the more valuable that native token becomes.HealthSapiens utilizes this function of tokens as part of it’s core design. When doctors receive more or less tokens based on the quality of their interactions with previous clients, good behavior is automatically incentivized. As a doctor, you must give a patient what they want, which is to be healed, in order to benefit yourself.The current economic system in healthcare doesn’t function like that. Doctors are paid for their appointments. A “Fee-for-service” model only incentivizes service, not results. In this model, the more patients a doctor can service, the more they are paid. This is not what we want.We want to incentive outcomes. Specifically, positive outcomes. Now, thanks to the ability to build code into money, we can do that.The HealthSapiens platform utilizes a ratings platform, similar to ones found with services like Uber, our Yelp. Doctors will accrue ratings based on their service to patients. Friendliness, professionalism, punctuality, and most importantly outcomes can all be incentivized and paid for.Finally, a healthcare platform that will actually incentivize good behavior, rather than just discouraging bad behavior.It takes a second for the potential of this system design to sink in. When outcomes are incentivized, a new paradigm is created.Doctors are incentivized to produce outcomes quickly, as they receive no extra payment for taking extra time.Doctors are incentivized to take a patient’s specific circumstances into account, rather than simply providing a one-size-fits-all care system.Doctors are incentivized to take care to its fullest extent. Not just returning a patient to normal, but to get them to their best form possible.This new, proactive approach to health has been what the current healthcare systems have been lacking. Lacking an outcome-based incentive structure is how the United States spends the most money per capita than any other country, and receives no positive health benefits as a result.Built-in incentive structures are how P2P networks have been able to be created in the first place. Without incentivizing good behavior, the P2P network would fall apart. The glue that holds it all together is the collective good behavior that has been incentivized in the first place.Please, help us grow the HealthSapiens P2P network! Join our Telegram: https://t.me/healthsapiens