
Meet the Team Behind Virtue PokerThe Virtue Poker team is comprised of talented computer scientists, accomplished industry veterans from the Ethereum and poker communities and the world’s top poker players. We have a former NASA engineer. We have the guy who took PokerStars from a startup to 100 million players. We have the former head of one of the world’s foremost poker education sites. One of the guys who invented the Ethereum blockchain is a top advisor. And our poker pros own fourteen World Series of Poker bracelets and over $70 million in winnings.Here’s a quick look at our team.FoundersRyan Gittleson, Co-Founder, has spent three years making Virtue Poker a reality. Prior to Virtue Poker, Ryan was Head of Customer Acquisition for TodayTix, a Broadway ticketing mobile application, which he built from 150,000 users to over 700,000. He discovered Ethereum in 2015 and instantly became captivated by the global potential of blockchain technology. Ryan holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of Pennsylvania.Jim Berry, Co-Founder, Lead Platform Developer, has worked on systems ranging from the ​Hubble Space Telescope to the Framingham Heart Study’s Research Data Application. Most of his career, however, has been spent working on computer games for companies like Electronic Arts, MicroProse and Looking Glass Technologies — among others — specializing in physical simulation and graphics.MarketingDan Goldman, Chief Marketing Officer, has more than 20 years’ experience marketing companies online. He was responsible for the rise of the world’s largest online poker company, PokerStars, taking the company from a startup to over 100 million players. Before PokerStars, Dan headed marketing for one of the largest online shopping comparison sites, leading to its acquisition by Experian. Dan also oversaw the development and launch of a casino-based online gaming site for one of the United States’ largest casinos.ProductJose Diaz, Head of Product, has more than 18 years of experience in the gambling industry as Chief Technical Officer, Product Development Director, Software Developer and IT Manager. With an MBA and a high university degree in Computer Science, he joined Virtue Poker as Head of Product, attracted by the innovative technology Virtue Poker uses. Jose’s background includes a strong track record of successful delivery of high profile projects, defining new development strategies in new platforms, leading strong teams and managing relationships with key clients.Colum Higgins, Senior Product Manager, obtained a PhD in physics from CERN in the early 90s. He spent the next 10 years in technical roles in supercomputing, as an Enterprise middleware consultant and finally as a tech startup founder and CTO. In 2007, Colum joined Full Tilt Poker as a program manager and business analyst. At Full Tilt, Colum drove the requirements for flagship features including a game client rewrite, regulation in France, beginner’s tables and tournament tickets.Development TeamJavier Franco Algarrada, Blockchain Development Team Lead, is a senior software engineer with more than 10 years of experience. He has worked for more than seven years in gambling across different products like lottery, virtual sports, casino games and sportsbook. Always interested in cutting-edge technologies, he decided to move into blockchain projects last year. Javier holds a Bachelor’s degree in computer science and a Master’s degree in web engineering.Raul Guiu, Back-End Developer, has been a software developer for over 20 years. He has built data analytic platforms for social gaming and high-volume transactional systems including VISA’s clearing and settlement platform and Amazon’s checkout. He has over eight years’ experience working for gambling companies including Betfair, BetVictor and Odobo.Daniel Ortega, Back-End Developer, has been a software engineer for 12 years, having worked in sectors ranging from civil works to airlines. He has been technical lead for KLM and Odobo, and was a Sun Microsystems instructor. Daniel has shared his knowledge as a speaker to many different audiences, ranging from the Linux User Group of Carlos III University to the Codemotion conference.Alvaro Rodríguez Villalba, Front-End Developer, is a full stack Javascript developer and Android developer. He co-founded a startup called Kultur where he was the web and Android developer, working for more than two years developing a web application for the simulation of satellite communication links. He also created several Javascript-based platforms as a freelance developer. Alvaro is a 2017 graduate of the ConsenSys Academy program.Jesus Lanchas, Back-End and Machine Learning: Jesus is a full-stack engineer with 12 years of experience, and is the former CTO of Acceso, with a background in big data analysis and machine learning.Israel Garcia Lozano, Automation QA, is a highly experienced Quality Assurance (QA) professional with more than twelve years of experience in a variety of test roles. He’s worked in different industries like banking (Santander Bank) and gambling (William Hill), building test frameworks and leading test teams to reach top quality standards.Catalin Dragu, Design and UX, has been a digital designer since 2010. Now he’s working together with ConsenSys, creating fresh and engaging DApps. He believes that good design gives you a good spirit. And does his best trying to create a beautiful experience for the users so that they can enjoy it like a walk in the park.Key AdvisorsJoseph Lubin is one of the founders of Ethereum, and is founder and CEO of ConsenSys, the world’s premiere blockchain venture production studio. After graduating cum laude with degrees in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton, Joe worked as research staff in the Robotics Lab at Princeton. He moved on to Goldman Sachs, where he focused on software engineering, finance and cryptography. Joe is one of the most recognizable faces in the blockchain community, and was named to CoinDesk’s Most Influential in Blockchain 2017.Damian Sokol has spent the past decade in the online gambling industry. He was CEO of PokerStrategy, the world’s biggest poker community and poker school, and was the world’s biggest gambling affiliate generating over $350 million revenue in the past 10 years. The company was acquired by gambling industry giant Playtech (PTEC-L), the world’s largest online gaming and sports betting software supplier.Team Virtue Poker ProsPhil Ivey has 10 World Series of Poker bracelets, tying him for second, and is the #6 all-time WSOP money-winner with over $23 million in live earnings. In addition, he is one of the top-performing online players, with winnings over $10 million, and has been to a record 9 World Poker Tour (WPT) final tables. From 2002 to 2009, Ivey placed in the Top 25 in the World Series of Poker Main Event an unprecedented four times, and was a unanimous inductee into the WSOP Hall of Fame in 2017.Dan Colman is best-known for beating Daniel Negreanu and winning the $1 million buy-in Big One for One Drop at the 2014 World Series of Poker, winning over $15 million. He also made the final table of the 2015 $111,111 High Roller for One Drop tournament, finishing 3rd for $1.5 million. Dan has made over $28 million in live earnings in his career, putting him third all-time.Brian Rast: Brian Rast, known online as tsarrast, is a three-time World Series of Poker bracelet winner. Brian won the $1,500 Pot-Limit Hold’em event in 2011, and won the prestigious $50,000 Players’ Championship twice, in 2011 and 2016. He ranks 10th all-time with over $20 million in live earnings over his career.