
What is Zloadr? Why You Need to Know about Zloadr Multiple Facet PlatformZloadr has finished its ICO and now on the surface it looks like Zloadr is helping new ICO’s and airdrops to gain exposure through it significant social followings but there is a lot more our crypto media platform offers.If you want to access Zloadr’s audience you are going to need our ZDR tokens. Our ZDR tokens give you the availability of social interactions to content publishing. Zloadr’s focus is to simply the process for our customers and partners, as such we are currently having our tokens trading on some of the most easiest user interface and best exchanges on the market.As a media platform we need to guarantee our partners the optimal methods to gain their platforms in front of people who will participate in their projects. As we such, press releases through our platform will enable content to get on Google and Yahoo news at a fraction of the cost that is currently on the market with services like Business Wire. We are a purely a cryptocurrency and blockchain platform & our press releases are picked up by 3rd parties for that sole reason.Alternatively, for those of our customers who are interested in reaching directly to potential investors or crypto enthusiast Zloadr currently has a database of 100,000 ( and growing daily) members subscribing to our newsletter.Content marketing is key to any new business that is looking to attract customers or investors especially in the world crypto, as the market is very fast paced and if you are not able to obtain and hold the attention of a observer it has the capacity to result in poor results compared to your expectations.Zloadr has a fully fledged content writers to give unbiased and informative details and reviews that is exclusive to Zloadr for our visitors. This is important to us- the executives behind Zloadr because we have cultivate a following by being unable to have our opinions bought or compromised unlike many of the top reviewers in the market presently.Zloadr’s content type varies from; ICO reviews, breaking news, CEO interviews and many more exclusive content. We do not bombard our site visitors with banners and many pop ups because we wish to keep our content and pages pure and not as invasive on our users.Do to Zloadr’s constant hard work and focusing our consumers needs and exceeding expectation, the numbers speak themselves. We anticipate these numbers to increase at least five fold as the popularity and adoption of crypto becomes more prominent. But Zloadr is not a one trick platform and have many features that are ever growing audience demand from us.Our development team is always working to bring us the latest things that our customers need. Zloadr has the capacity to convert over 200 different currencies with our in house developed currency calculator, this includes both fiat and crypto. Whether you are converting 1 Blocknet token to 1 Mexican Peso, Zloadr can do that for you. Pick and pair any two currencies that you need and we can give you the price.Did you also know that Zloadr is developing its own exchange? CEO Sam Enrico Williams always believed in the power of the people as such, our new exchange will be powered by the people. Zloadr will be launching what it calls, its “Token Liquidity Exchange”.The exchange will allow platforms who offer AirDrops & ICO’s to list their currencies on to Zloadr’s exchange free of charge, subject to criteria’s being met.The exchange will allow platforms to convert their tokens to more tradable tokens, which are already trading at a price and have been accepted on major exchanges, making it easier to liquidate out off.Zloadr as you can see now is not just a one move platform, we have more feature integrations due to arrive in 2018 so it is advised to hold on to your ZDR tokens and if you do not presently hold any, you should do so while you can!