
FT Highlights: 4/29/18Some articles pulled from recent FT readingThe “Wild Thoughts” Grammy performance in Jan 2018Sergey Brin is concerned about the AI “revolution”:There’s an autonomous aerial taxi company called Kitty Hawk that Sergey and Larry have invested in. KH is apparently testing their product in New Zealand…Peter Thiel’s “we were promised flying cars” soundbite may materialize sooner rather than later.Sergey joins Elon Musk in the “tech magnate concerned about AI” category. My personal take is that as a data scientist I have a hard time getting “AI” or “machine learning” models to do anything particularly surprising so I’m broadly unconcerned about the potential for AGI.Kitty Hawk is led by Sebastian Thrun, who also founded Waymo and Udacity…which are some impressive credentials. Uber is also getting into the autonomous aerial vehicle space with a division called Elevate that will test flying vehicles in Dubai and the DFW area…an odd combination.Vitalik Buterin eats Thai food and owns mostly T-shirts:Buterin’s net worth is $10–20M but the market value of his blockchain implementation, Ethereum, is $125B.Trading digital felines recently clogged up the Ethereum transaction processors.Ross Ulbricht lost his 5-year-long criminal case last year and now faces life in prison. The book about him, American Kingpin, is excellent.Vitalik, like Crispin Glover before him, has had exaggerated reports of his death circulated. Last year it knocked $4B off the ethereum market cap.Something that always strikes me in articles about Vitalik or seeing videos of him at tech conferences is the odd mix of old soul and young child that comes across. He’s frequently wearing a colorful or cartoony T-shirt — a unicorn vomiting rainbows, a pink shirt with a cat on it. Maintaining a stable, highly visible blockchain implementation against what must be an onslaught of the worst the internet has to offer must be a tough job, and he’s clearly quite precocious, but the analogy that the article’s author offers of Peter Pan’s lost boys seems quite apt.Chen Qiufan sees 100 movies and reads 50 books a year:The article author makes the comparison to Liu Cixin, whose books The Three Body Problem are the only Chinese sci-fi that I’ve read. I read the first one and haven’t gotten to the rest of the series. It reminded me of the Stanislaw Lem book His Master’s Voice.Amazon is reportedly in talks to develop The Three Body Problem as a TV show — it’s also developing another sci-fi classic, the Iain M. Banks book Consider Phlebas, for a TV series. Elon Musk has talked about Consider Phlebas as one of his favorite books — I attribute Amazon’s sci-fi chops to Jeff Bezos’s tech background.Chen is part of a generation called the bālínghòu or those born in the 1980s during the peak of the one child policy. Members of this generation typically have no siblings, and therefore he will be responsible for his parents as they grow older.“Wild Thoughts” and Carlos Santana’s “Maria Maria”:Santana thought that his guitar was a snake during his 1969 Woodstock set.Wyclef Jean, who co-wrote “Maria Maria”, borrowed from Wu-Tang Clan’s “Wu-Tang Clan ain’t nuthing ta f’ wit” for the song.Jack White isn’t impressed by DJ Khaled borrowing from Santana, but Santana’s all about it.