
Crypto Dividends — April 2018 SummaryI am on a journey to try and earn a passive income from cryptocurrencies that I could live off and I am chronicling my journey here on Medium for people to follow.As April came to an end yesterday, it is time for an update on my crypto dividends portfolio and the returns I received over the month.Before doing that however, I want to do a quick summary of the tokens that I hold in my portfolio and their dollar value today:Envion (EVN) — 3,500 tokens, token price = $0.40Terraminer (TRM2) — 870 ($2.5)Spectre Dividend (SXD) — 3,500 ($0.24)Sharpe Capital (SHP) — 3,000 ($0.23)Rialto (XRL) — 5,000 ($0.18)TAAS (TAAS) — 100 ($5.23)Bankera ( BNK) — 40,000 ($0.03)Hello Gold (HGT) — 15,000 ($0.03)WePower (WPR) — 5,000 ($0.15)OmiseGo (OMG) — 100 ($16.77)I have trimmed some of the holdings in my portfolio. Most notably Envion, having sold 1,500 tokens. I am becoming increasingly disgruntled with the project. There has been no update since March on their blog and not much on Twitter either. They don’t seem to be responding to e-mails and there is no word on when dividends will be paid. At the moment the prospects for the project look fairly bleak.I have also cut my holdings in Sharpe Capital because unfortunately if you aren’t able to get your prediction score up to a certain level (which I haven’t been able to) then the payout is just too small to be worth it.Finally I have sold some We Power, mainly because I think it will be some time — possibly a couple of years — before there are meaningful returns from the project. But I may come back once they have some renewable energy schemes up and running and revenues flowing in.Payouts for AprilIn terms of payouts this month, unfortunately I am repeating myself again by reporting that there is virtually nothing.Some of the projects (like OmiseGo) to be fair weren’t meant to be up and running yet anyway so we can spare them from criticism. Others like Hello Gold and Spectre are working hard at delivering on their plans so I am happy to be patient with them and see how they play out.But there are some like the aforementioned Envion and also Terraminer — which was meant to start payouts to pre-ICO investors like myself in March but still haven’t produced anything — who have been most disappointing.On a more positive note, Rialto has started trading with its algorithms and generated a profit of 0.00756 ETH for the first two weeks I have been involved. So whilst that is hardly mindblowing, it’s at least a start and hopefully something to build on.In terms of the other payouts received, Sharpe Capital’s payment dropped to just 0.007 ETH this month, which is quite a bit down from last month’s 0.024 ETH. Bankera made weekly payments in April totalling 0.00065 ETH, producing a grand total from my portfolio of 0.015 ETH in dividends for April, or approximately $10.11 at the time of writing.So suffice to say it’s hardly been the most successful experiment so far and certainly 10 dollars isn’t enough to live off for a month here in the UK —not even for a day actually!Looking Forward and Other Potential Dividend TokensLooking forward then, I am a little more optimistic that things will start to pick up. TAAS is due to make its quarterly payout shortly (although we haven’t heard yet what that will be), Bankera’s exchange should be getting going and Spectre are due to start making dividend payouts very soon. So hopefully next month I’ll have some more positive news to report.Thank you for the suggestions some of you have made in the comments for other potential dividend tokens to invest in. NEO is a big one obviously but at the moment its ROI is quite low at around 3.8%. Kucoin is another possibility and I was invested in it previously, but with returns at around 4.5% is also not super-exciting. I wouldn’t be looking to invest in those unless there was a compelling case that those ROIs were likely to increase significantly in the future.Coss and Trade Token are two small cap possibilities I am keeping an eye on, but will need to up their games and prove they can compete with the dozens of other exchanges already out there, not to mention the others due to be released soon, before I would invest in them.I am also keeping my eye on Counting House which is having its ICO at the moment. Although not strictly speaking a dividend token, its returns look very impressive for the past few years. The other one is MWAT (Restart Energy) that has been getting a lot of publicity and is one I will be researching thoroughly.Anyway, here is the April summary in all its glory:April 2018 Dividends SummaryDividends Received: 0.015 EtherFiat Equivalent: $10.11N.B. I am not a financial advisor and the above article and those in this series should not be taken as financial advice. I am simply recording my own experience in cryptocurrency for entertainment purposes. If you intend to invest in cryptocurrency, please do your own research and take professional financial advice. All cryptocurrencies carry risk and your entire capital could be lost.