
A Very Good Project From MF ChainThe modern finance chain is an upcoming model being proposed on the Blockchain technology that would act as a platform for other models of this technology. Here different services and products would be available for purchase from diverse merchant services. Those who create unique products or wish to launch new ideas would be able to collaborate and find investors as well as a customer community here. The platform would also have resources for developers. They will find a platform based on smart contracts which would have multilingual support. Hence, different kinds of tools can be developed rapidly and deployed through this framework. The platform would have universal support features to embrace different kinds of Blockchain technology.It would include payment solutions as well as rewards programs for consumers and merchants. That would make it easy for both parties to embrace the crypto currency payment mode. Hence, the platform would include several unique features that would enable all such properties to be carried out.Features of Modern Finance ChainThis platform would have the following features:Allowing different Blockchain technologies to be compatible with this platform. Hence, even other Blockchain based communities would be able to avail or transact on this platform.Digital identity is established as the platform would be a compliant structure that makes its framework legal for different users to work upon. At the same time the right standards of privacy aspects would be ensured.It would be a multi currency supportive structure. It would make it possible for transactions to take place with different kinds of crypto currency tokens. New projects with ICOs can also be generated on the platform.The platform would support different programming languages; it would also allow enterprises to develop proprietary coded Blockchains and run mini communities within this platform. merchant reward system merchant reward system There are several other features planned for this model that would be unique. Such as the atomic swap that would allow transactions to take place across different Blockchains. The library of smart contracts would be a pre-built features that would allow developers to work with similar models and draw from such existing resources.Team behind Modern Finance ChainThe team that works behind the development of this platform comprises of cryptographers, programmers and others who have the expertise to carry out the visions of the company. The platform is run by Viacheslav Shybaiev who is the lead person to run this enterprise. He is supported by others such as cryptographers, mathematicians and data scientists in developing this unique model.Should you invest in Modern Finance Chain? With several Blockchain based business ventures coming up, this framework strives to offer something different. The platform would support other Blockchain based businesses transacting with consumers; it would also provide tools for other Blockchain technologies to develop based on this framework. With such aspects this platform has a distinctly different objective for business. If the platform is executed well, it would attract several developers and Blockchain based businesses as well.OUR VISIONA digital economy where consumers can buy goods and services with any cryptocurrency at their favorite merchants. A place where visionaries and creators can collaborate to launch innovative distributed applications in a world that relies on trustless transactions in any currency of their choice. A platform where developers are supported with multi-language compatibility and a library of smart contracts designed to promote rapid development and deployment. An ecosystem that embraces all blockchains into a digital utopia.ICO PROJECT GUARANTEEMulti-signature escrow is a way of locking funds allocated in the ICO until specific conditions are met. This method allows for a guarantee to ICO contributors that certain development milestones in the project are achieved. The team will not be able to spend the funds raised during the ICO until the obligations for development are fulfilled. 50% of ICO funds will be locked. 20% of the funds will be locked until the MF Chain Payment System is fully developed and released. 30% of the funds will be locked until the release and deployment of MF Mainnet.This escrow arrangement is handled directly on the blockchain through the MFX ICO smart contract. Funds are distributed and locked accordingly, live for each ICO contribution transaction.MF MAINNETModern Finance Chain is helping the world adopt crypto as a currency by creating a global digital economy. Starting with a payment solution and rewards program for merchants and consumers that makes it easy to embrace cryptocurrency payments.The greater vision of Modern Finance Chain is the MF Mainnet with intelligent features.MF Chain ICO DatesPrivate Offer: April 4th - April 25thPresale: April 25th - May 15thICO: May 15th - June 15thICO INFOSOFT CAP - 4,500 ETH MIN FUND RAISEHARD CAP - 33,000 ETH ICO CAP1 Ether = 8,500 MFX tokens.ICO Token Price: 1 Ether = 8,500 MFX Tokens33,000 Ether Total ICO Hard CapMinimum Contribution - 0.1 EtherMaximum Contribution - 200 EtherPresale Token Price: 1 Ether = 10,150 MFX Tokens5000 ETH Hard CapMinimum Contribution : 5.0 EtherMaximum Contribution : 200 EtherMore Info Please Visit : Website: https://mfchain.comWhitepaper: https://mfchain.com/wpTelegram: https://t.me/modernchain Twitter: https://twitter.com/ModernChain Reddit: https://www.reddit.com/r/MFChain Medium: https://medium.com/@mfchain Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/MFChain GitHub: https://github.com/mfchain ANN: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3264121.0My ProfilBitcointalk Link : https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1130345EthAddress : 0x303EED891A4E767E330ecb69119E430e17Bf8490