
Wrapping-up Discussions for the MonthDear friends, the work on the OLPORTAL project continues to hum and we have much interesting news to share with you. In this article, we would like to brief you on our achievements, results, and amount of work that we have completed for this month:A new specialist has joined our team. Her name is Viktoria Gavrilyuk and she holds the position of the International coordinator. Her job is to communicate with the crypto community and potential partners of OLPORTAL.On April 28, we have held the collaborative MeetUp dedicated to the technical part of blockchain and its programming aspects, ICO projects, ICO investments, and reviews of two upcoming ICO of the OLPORTAL and Hedera Hashgraph projects.The OLPORTAL’s ecosystem has also undergone some essential changes concerning the OLWallet development. We decided to omit the idea of the multicurrency crypto wallet and shift towards the cryptocurrency exchange development, where we are going to implement cryptocurrency wallet. But this will be realized later. So, you will be surged over by the wave of the new ICO campaign of OLCF Corporation. We will provide you with the further details later.Today negotiations with some projects are being actively pursued. Wait for news!We have finished the shooting of the video about OLPORTAL’s team and our product. It took several days and included different locations and interviews of several members of our team, who were speaking about OLPORTAL. Don’t miss the video release!We’ve already finished to “package” the main idea of the project. So, it will be accomplished very soon. However, we still need to solve some technical aspects for this.The official investment documents including memorandum, NDA, and public offer are composed and ready to be used for concluding agreements with our future investors.Besides, our developers continue to work on the application’s functionality, blockchain design, and AI implementation and learning. There are a lot of goals being set for May, and we will certainly tell you about them next time! We are open to your questions and offers which you can leave under our posts on our social media! Join these sources and leave your comments!