
Utility Tokens Vs Security TokensThe Initial Coin Offering (ICO) has transformed the way boundaries, and timeline for how companies, start-ups, and entrepreneurs finance their business. In 2018 alone, the ICO has raised over $3.25b, creating a visible ripple effect of what cryptocurrency analysts say may eventually turn out to be a multi-trillion-dollar industry.The ICO is a fundraising model through which cryptocurrency tokens can be issued on a blockchain (mostly through bitcoin and ethereum). It is through the ICO that these tokens are distributed to contributors and traded on cryptocurrency exchange platforms. The tokens can be used for various functions such as entitling token holders to company dividend and granting access to different services. Depending on the purpose of the project, the ICO tokens can be classified as either utility tokens or security tokens.Utility TokensThe utility tokens which is commonly known as the user token or app token grants holders access to future products or services of the issuing company. The distinguishing feature of the utility tokens is that they are not designed as investments and are thus exempted from any Federal governing laws or regulations. They can be likened to a gift card or a software license. The use of utility tokens allows entrepreneurs or startups to sell coupons for services or products that would be released in future. For instance, in 2013, the founder of MasterCoin; Willet promised to give 100 Mastercoins to anyone who sent him Bitcoin. The Mastercoin project token ended up getting 5000 Bitcoins valued at $500,000 in 2013 and gave out about 500,000 Mastercoins. Filecoin also raised $257m by selling tokens which would provide users with access to their decentralized cloud storage arena. The utility tokens are usually referred to as token generation events (TGEs) or token distribution events (TDEs) to separate them from appearing as security offerings.Security TokensSecurity tokens are tokens whose values are derived from an eternal or a tradable asset. Security tokens are investment tokens and are subject to federal security regulations. Failures to comply with such regulations would result in penalties or harm the progress of the project. However, if entrepreneurs, start-ups or companies meet all regulatory requirements, the security tokens give an opportunity for many applications and even grants such company the ability to issue tokens that represent company’s shares.The following questions can be used to determine whether a token is a utility or security:Is it sold to make a profit?Who creates the value of the token: An individual/entity or a network of people/entities?ICO tokens and the futureThe introduction of SEC regulations has greatly affected organizations conducting utility tokens. These companies offering utility ICOs are desperately trying to structure their token such that it would not be classified as security tokens. This is because classification as security tokens comes with certain regulations and limitations on who can invest in the tokens and how they will be exchanged.SEC regulations are continuously being developed and refined for decades. Not until there is a thorough SEC guidance, no one can say with certainty that a token is utility and not security. This implies that in the future, many projects which were initially set up their tokens as utility would be classified as securities. This is because SEC operates with the philosophy of “substance over form.” This means that a token would be classified as a security or utility depending on whether the contributors invest with anticipation of profits.Online retailer Overstock has announced that tZERO, one of its network of companies will hold an ICO to fund the development of the first licensed security trading portal. The tZERO tokens will be sold in compliance with SEC regulations. Holders of the tZERO token will be entitled to quarterly dividends obtained from the profits of the tZERO platform.The launch of the proposed security token trading platform will be a quantum leap for token investors. This platform will protect both the company and token contributors while also improving the liquidity for token investors, not to mention Nasdaq’s interest in jumping in the security token wagon themselves.About meI’m a full time trader and investor that has seen the growth of this new asset class from the very beginning. Learning is my career, passion and hobby. Follow my process Here:Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/cryptodemia/Twitter: https://twitter.com/cryptodemia1Telegram: https://t.me/CryptodemiaannounceFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/Cryptodemia/DisclaimerThis article is for educational purposes only. I am not a financial advisor, the views presented in this article are my own views. Seek a duly licensed professional for investment advice.