
Mike’s weekend message to QUOINE community (May 5th, 2018)Dear QUOINERsI hope you are having a wonderful weekend.It was Labor Day in many countries as well as Golden Week in Japan.Despite the holiday, most of our people at QUOINE worked throughout the week. We are committed to make our platform and services better and I can not be prouder of our team. GO QUOINE!!This week I will start with Product Development as this will be the start of a series of LIQUID platform updates. Exciting times.1. Product DevelopmentInternal World Book Beta: The First ChapterLast week, we released an official blog about our Internal World Book Beta: The First Chapter. I am extremely proud of our team at QUOINE for all the incredible work they have put in to take us ever closer to realizing the true potential of our vision for LIQUID. The Internal World Book Beta is a major step in the right direction, but our journey is only beginning. We thank you for joining us on this voyage.Please read more about our Internal World Book Beta on our blogs: Medium: http://bit.ly/2KnUxiX Steemit: http://bit.ly/2KrhNwCICO Mission ControlWe are launching our Initial Coin Offering (ICO) platform on QRYPTOS called ICO Mission Control. ICO Mission Control is an end-to-end solution designed to help blockchain project teams conduct an ICO in a flexible, secure, transparent and rapid manner. ICO Mission Control helps blockchain Project Teams conduct a public ICO that adheres to the highest standards of KYC and AML and offers a fast path to secondary market trading.And this ICO Mission Control will also be unified into our LIQUID Platform before summer.For the first ICO, VUULR will be the first ICO to be hosted on the platform beginning 9th May. We thank VUULR to be our first ICO Mission Control customer.Please stay tuned for more exciting details coming next week.Usability upgradesAs part of our mission to serve the needs of all traders, last week we released some major usability upgrades on QRYPTOS. These improvements include:* Top line navigation enhancements* QRYPTOS Wallet area usability improvements* Smoother navigation flows, easier search and more focus on important functions* Increased readability for accounts area with easier verification process* Improved user experience on both basic and advanced trading modesPlease read our blog titled: “Simplifying the Crypto Exchange Experience” by Chief Design Officer Jon Myers.Medium: http://bit.ly/2FDCrWG Steemit: http://bit.ly/2FF0vs22. Token ListingsWe had 3 token listings this week:- Zebi Coin is a ERC20 based utility token that safeguards data against hacking and tampering, while obtaining consent from individuals. Steemit: https://bit.ly/2HyZ702 Medium: https://bit.ly/2JwCKVx- MITx: Morpheus Labs’s Blockchain-Platform-as-a-Service (BPaaS) empowers rapid prototyping and fast deployment of Decentralized Application (DApp) in a cost effective manner. As a utility token, MITX can be used for the payment for BPaaS subscription fees, ICO-as-a-Service (ICOaaS) as well as DApps fees in the BPaaS’s App Store. Steemit: https://bit.ly/2w5bKKM Medium: https://bit.ly/2FCz8y- XNK: Ink Protocol provides trusted peer-to-peer transactions on any platform. Anyone can securely buy & sell everywhere with built-in decentralized reputation, escrow, and dispute resolution. Find out more about Ink Protocol: https://paywithink.com/For May Week 2 on QRYPTOS, we are planning on listing 1 token:- ALX is ALAX’s utility token, tradable on multiple exchanges. ALAX is a blockchain based app store for content creators and gamers with potential to reach over 100M users. Learn more at: https://alax.io3. Marketing / Community3.1. Events:- This week I did an interview with Youtuber Keith Wareing about QASH, LIQUID and the World Book. I shared with Keith how our project is taking shape and what we have in store. You can check out the video at: https://bit.ly/2KyG5Vd- Also our VP of Marketing Katherine Ng presented at the INSEAD Event on May 3rd on how to conduct a successful ICO. The event was organized by Future FinTech and hosted by the INSEAD Alumni Association. Learn more at https://www.insead.edu/master-programmes/mba/events3.2. Community:QASH Rewards Program:For the month of April, QASH Rewards Program welcomes all written articles under the theme of: “The launch of the LIQUID platform and World Book Beta”.Since the beginning of April, we have received 1,662 submissions for Twitter retweets and 73 articles under the written content category. We have paid out our QASH rewards to our QUOINERS by end of last week.  For May, our QASH Rewards Program will continue the same theme for written content as we are getting closer to Internal World Book Beta going live.IMPORTANT: Please note that all submissions must adhere to our guidelines for UTM tracking links so that your articles are qualified for QASH Rewards and we can track any traffic that comes from your articles: https://bit.ly/2pWB6oMLearn more on our Steemit and Medium blog posts:Steemit: https://bit.ly/2H6NgTB Medium: https://bit.ly/2GsGu9y4. Operations / Customer SupportImportant Notice:We have noticed a worrying trend of our users receiving phishing emails that appear to come from our support@quoine.com inbox, but are in fact coming from elsewhere. Scammers often attempt to target our Telegram users and ask for their emails address before sending these malicious emails. We are working to address this issue and put an end to this email spoofing. You can identify these emails because they usually ask for a small payment in BTC or ETH in order to fix an issue or else they may refer to a giveaway, contest or airdrop.We will never send any emails to our customers asking for funds or promoting any kind of giveaway that requires you to send us funds. If you look in the header of these scam emails you will see that the x-mailer field shows the emails come from suspicious sending programs, rather than ours, which come from MailChimp.Please be vigilant and always cross-check who you are talking to on Telegram with our list of approved community managers. If in doubt, ask for assistance in the public group. Also remember that our community managers will never initiate direct message contact with you. Remember, if an offer is too good to be true, it probably is.Customer Support:From April 27th to May 3rd we solved the following tickets.Manila — 13257 tickets, Vietnam — 2220 tickets solvedAnd our average Ticket Handling Time was 11.7 hours and our satisfaction rating went down slightly to 84.7%.We will continue to improve.That’s all of this week.Please have a wonderful weekend.Mike Kayamori