
Robotina ICOOverviewThe Robotina Platform will be a vertical, high-tech all-inclusive enabling solution, consisting of connected Internet of Things (IoT) elements (things, processes, data, people) and the Power Platform (PP). It will use Smart Rules, Artificial Intelligence and Blockchain technologies. It will be run in the cloud, available as a service. Robotina Platform and connected IoT will execute thousands of calculations per second. Each calculation will result in a small benefit and a small slice of revenue, which will accumulate every second. At the end of the day, this will become the driving force of the business. Artificial Intelligence, machine learning, patented multiobjective optimization and blockchain technology allows us to disrupt the electricity market and implement a collaborative sharing economy business model, which distributes numerous benefits to the participating users.Electricity consumption issuesElectricity powers virtually 90% of world activities, and every living thing depends on electricity directly or indirectly. But to us humans in this era, we can almost do nothing without the use of electricity in our daily lives. From the powering of home appliances to the heavy duty machinery in industries and large-scale production cycles, everything depends on electric power.This reasoning is backed by a record of global electric consumption rate of over 20,000 TWh annually. So basically, electricity is important any way you look at it. But the fundamental problem here is that of the uncertainty of supply and demand.Now, there are currently other different consensus aiming towards wholesome alternative energy sources such as solar, wind, nuclear, biofuels and others go as far as considering hybrid grids. These alternative sources of energy may be renewable to certain degrees and some as good and efficient as they may purport, they also have limiting characteristics.Robotina has identified some of these disturbances in the electricity distribution systems such as unscrupulous continuous demand for power which raises the pressure on the power grid due to redundant excesses of power consumed by unattended appliances.So the major problem is due to lifestyle, and this can be managed manually though, but even that draws too much of attention span and can be a tedious exercise especially when trying to ensure an optimum usage. Remembering which switch is on and which to turn off and keeping track of each appliance as they run can be cumbersome.How Robotina Solves Power Issues?Robotina aims to change the way people use electricity. With the implementation of technologies like AI(Artificial Intelligence), IoT and Blockchain, Robotina will be able to bring down the overall cost of energy consumption.Robotina optimizes the power grid and monitors the consumption of energy real-time. It uses the AI to process the acquired data and allows the effective utilization of energy. It turns off devices that are not being used and allows the users to consume power as efficiently as possible.The company takes the privacy of its consumers very seriously and it processes the data anonymously. Users can sell their data or keep it private if they wish.Robotina uses eco-friendly technologies and allows the users to sell and purchase unused energy freely. Users can also collaborate and buy power as a group. They can participate in crowd financing and trade their unused power.For the currency, Robotina uses ROX tokens which are Ethereum bases ERC-20 tokens. Investors can use the tokens within the Robotina community. Tokens are used for crowdfunding and the payment of the services. These tokens can also be used to purchase the software and hardware supported by the company.TEAMDevid Pal훾i훾,: CEO- Mr. Pal훾i훾, the President of the Board of Robotina. Currently, he is working on Smart City concepts, which include smart homes, buildings, energy, mobility and others.Milan Susman: CSM-He is responsible for international sales and marketing and he contributes to the overall sales strategy.Ivan Morano: CTO- Mr. Morano leads a team of engineers and programmers focused on industrial and industry-like automation. With many years of experience, Ivan has contributed to successful projects for Robotina in various industries, like food and drugs, dairy, sea ports and chemicalsThe Roadmap:Their development plan is quite eventful as they plan to kick off the project from the Q3 of 2018 through Q3 of 2020. The plan is objective enough for the team to handle, considering their experience and achievements in the past.Token MatrixToken:ROX/ROXPreICO Price:0.048 USD = 1 ROXPrice:0.05 USD = 1 ROXPlatform:EthereumAccepting:ETHMinimum investment:0.5 ETHSoft cap:10 000 000 USDHard cap:28,500,000 USDVerdictThe project seems promising and worth investing in as they already have a product ready. The solutions proposed by the startup seem very useful to the society.Their product provides a real-world solution for the energy distribution and management. It is important to note however that there are some decentralized energy ecosystems established already.White paper: https://www.robotinaico.com/documents/Robotina_WP.pdfWebsite: https://www.robotinaico.com/