
Join the Public sale whitelistBack in September 2017, when we were writing our white paper and setting our hardcap, the crypto world was a very different place. Our initial financial forecasts were based on securing one partner in the UK & the US. How things have changed!We’ve seen first hand just how fast-moving, exciting and downright thrilling the blockchain world can be. Back at the start of 2018, I don’t think we could have predicted that we would:Hit 25,000+ Telegram members, making us one of the fastest-growing communities in cryptoReceive the backing of Department for International Trade, The Mayor of London and The City of London, and be selected selected to lead to two tech visits to ChinaBe the only blockchain company accepted into the first cohort of the Access India ProgrammeBe named in the European Retail Tech Top 50Undertake a five-week Asian roadshow, generating huge amount of interestBe named one of the 15 startup innovators set to light up the blockchain cybersecurity marketGenerate organic media coverage throughout the globe across titles such as Forbes, Nasdaq, IB Times, Techcrunch, Coin Desk, Coin Telegraph and many more.And be in advanced discussions with multiple retailers, telcos and financial institutions in numerous territoriesAfter the whirlwind start to 2018, and the rocketing interest in the project, our recent trip to China brought even greater opportunities to establish Nuggets. However, this has also convinced us to delay the start of the token sale, as we develop those new opportunities. We’ve also been gathering information from the crypto communities, about what supporters really want to see from a token launch. It’s important to get this right, and we’re making some significant improvements.If you missed out on the pre-sale, you will definitely still get a chance to secure tokens again.This is only a slight delay to put us in the best possible position ahead of the release of the token in June. Ultimately, it’ll be good news for all our token-holders.Most important of all, Nuggets has a strong, resilient team and technology exciting enough to inspire enthusiasm across the international stage.Doing this right takes time and patience. We want to ensure everyone who joins the project enjoys in our success for years to come.You can join the public sale whitelist now, and you’ll have the chance to participate in our public sale on 31st May, and own NUG. Stay tuned to our Telegram for the latest announcements.In the meantime, there’s a huge amount going on. We’ve had amazing support from the UK Government, and we’ve been travelling the world, showcasing Nuggets to enthusiastic audiences across Asia.We’ve been discussing hugely exciting partnerships in China, and getting a very excited response to the product in India. Nuggets was always a global proposition — it’s fantastic to see people across the world being inspired by its potential.Government supportWe’ve had incredible support from UK government bodies recently, which has been invaluable as we introduce Nuggets to influential people and organisations in China.The Department for International Trade, the Greater London Authority and the City of London Corporation have all put their weight behind us, and we’ve been selected to lead to two tech visits to China.The UK government has declared a “new golden era” in UK-China relations, and Nuggets is right at the heart of that new era. We’re also helping to show the potential of the “fintech bridge” agreed by the UK and China in 2016, which aims to strengthen regulatory co-operation, and create opportunities for fintech startups in both markets.Steve Lau, Founder and Managing Partner of Eagles Fund, joins as Senior Strategic AdvisorWith things moving so fast in Asia, we were thrilled to welcome entrepreneur, investor and telecoms specialist Steve Lau to the Nuggets team as Senior Strategic Advisor. Steve will be working closely with our team in China, focusing on localisation and introducing information into Chinese markets.Steve’s 25 years of experience, his knowledge of the Chinese markets, and his telecoms expertise, will all be invaluable to us as we progress. He’s an incredibly well-respected figure, known for founding the group that became Nokia’s first exclusive distributor in China.He is also chairman of the board of telecoms and investment company, China Fortune Holdings, as well as the Founder and Managing Partner of Eagles Fund — ranked third in the list of China angel investment funds by China FOF Alliance in 2016. And if that wasn’t enough, Steve is also Managing Partner of DFJ Dragon Fund, and one of the angel investors behind Beijing V2 Technology Limited, a leading provider in multimedia software.Nuggets for Social GoodWe care about making a difference, and are already making a global impact in our application of blockchain technology for wider social good.Our Senior Strategic Advisor, Sally Eaves, was recently given an inaugural Frontier Technology award through the United Nations, for her contribution to accelerating social impact through emergent technology.Sally has been representing Nuggets by speaking across Asia, MENA and the USA over the last two months, to make our shared vision a reality. Watch out for exciting news coming this week about the launch of the Nuggets Foundation, which Sally is leading. This will help support greater financial inclusion and identity for the 2 billion unbanked worldwide. It will also be the focus of our quest to build and support an international community of change makers.Nuggets in the mediaNuggets continues to excite a lot of interest in the business media. It was exciting to see our partnerships with UK government organisations, and our progress in China, featured on Nasdaq recently. There’s also been coverage in Payment Week, Finextra and Bdaily.Businesses, governments, thought leaders, the media — the Nuggets message is resonating with everyone right now, all over the world.Watch out for more updates on Telegram and Twitter, and we’ll be back with more posts here very soon.