
4NEW is the world’s first eco-friendly, tangible, waste to energy power plant entirely integrated on the blockchain network and dedicated to crypto-mining. We collect the waste, process it through a high pressured combustion chamber generating free energy and organic byproducts. We apply this free energy to an onsite crypto-mining farm resolving the achilles heel of cryptocurrencies; voracious energy consumption met with free energy production. We are producers of energy, NOT an energy exchange platform.ProblemCryptocurrencies global market capitalization has surpassed $500 billion USD rising over 2000% in 2017. This trendis expected to continue for the foreseeable future as businesses increasingly embrace the elegant design and transparency the blockchain offers to all. However, as of February 28 2018, Bitcoin mining energy intake has officially surpassed the entire energy consumption of the country of Bangladesh, which ranks 45 globally in regards to energy consumption. As the difficulty of mining increases to reflect the influx of miners joining the network, this energy consumption will increase. The most astounding aspect of this is that the rate of expansion is exponential. At the current rate of consumption, next year Bitcoin mining will consume enough energy to be listed as the twentieth country in the world by energy consumption. The model is simply unsustainable. The world relies primarily on the production of energy from the burning of coal and oil, which not only damages the environment, but the economy as a whole. If Bitcoin has a great enough impact on the world’s coal and oil supplies, the cost of a kilowatt will rise globally.4NEW Solution4NEW is the world’s first eco-friendly, tangible, blockchain ecosystem powered by waste to energy power plants. The concept is quite simple, the process of refining waste product into water and organic materials createsenergy and that is then leveraged to either be sold to the national grid or applied to operate mining processes at an onsitemining farm.The cost to produce the energy is met through the revenue generated from the waste collection services and sale of byproducts facilitating a sustainable operation at breakeven or a marginal profit. Therefore, the energy produced is unencumbered and freely available for utilization or sale to the national grid. Historically, the price of 1 kilowatt has been very stable for the past fifty years at approximately $0.15 globally, inflation adjusted. This trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future in lieu of technological innovations. However, the wild card that not many have truly evaluated is the exponential acceptance of the blockchain worldwide leading to a massive spike in energy consumption by cryptocurrency mining that could drive the price of 4NEW has the unique opportunity to apply this finite lifetime supply of energy to its coin, namely, KWATT. The 4NEW coin symbol is KWATT. Each KWATT Coin embodies within it, 1 kilowatt of electricity for a yearAbout 4NEWOur product is grounded in necessities, solving two social problems, waste surplus and energy shortfall. Our blockchain platform will be built on top of the underlying treatment infrastructure covering the entire supply chain from collection of waste to generation of electricity to sale of energy units to the national grid or between consumers and industry peers.Given the utilitarian nature of our services, it is our belief that 4NEW will successfully integrate the blockchain network within the real-world applications of waste to energy conversion with widespread acceptance.The 4NEW arrangement will help connect that hole for the Blockchain organize by setting up future plant destinations in nearness to urban focuses where these information servers might be arranged, subsequently lightening the weights on the separate national electric matrix. The stage is based on four columns:4NEW Coin Limited-Provide “Coin as a Service” to industry companions, buyers and early adopters. Decentralized, open source Blockchain incorporated stage encouraging value-based trade between Business to Business (B2B), Business to Consumer (B2C) and Consumer to Consumer (C2C) identified with waste and vitality markets.4NEW Limited-Waste to Energy working company4NEW Smart Meter Limited-Smart Meter renting and working company4NEW Assets Limited — Real home resource holding organization comprehensive of property, plant and gear.CRYPTOCURRENCY TRANSACTIONThe token used in the platform to transact, makes payments and regulate usage of electricity by households, industries and private users, is the 4NEW coins. Each 4NEW plant has a minimum annual capacity of approximately 40,000 tonnes per year of waste processing.Each ton generates roughly $110.00 in coin utilization for waste collection services. Additionally, processing 40,000 tonnes of waste per year would convert to approximately 104,000 MW/Yr of energy that can be sold for approximately $0.13 per KW in coin utilization. Both waste and energy require roughly $13,500,000.00 in coin utilization per annum per plant. To meet up corporate objectives of the platform, ICO is out for offer to allow participants take active part in the inherent benefit of the platform.More information:Official website: https://4new.co.ukWhitepaper Link: https://4new.co.uk/4new_whitepaper.pdf