
Amazon AWS now offers Blockchain and Ethereum is a WinnerAmazonDon’t listen to the blockchain anti-evangelists, they do not know of what they speak. The truth is there has never been so much blockchain adoption among enterprise and new related startups mostly related to cryptocurrencies.Amazon Web Services launches ‘blockchain templates’Amazon wants to make it easier for developers to create projects based on the blockchain technology underlying bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, with “blockchain templates”.The product gives users pre-set blockchain frameworks that support two versions of the technology: Ethereum and the Linux Foundation’s Hyperledger Fabric.The templates allow users to create and launch secure blockchain network using open source frameworks in a fast and easy way.This means Ethereum has reached the big leagues in some respects.While Ethereum has seen its market cap plummet amid the 2018 Bitcoin correction, it’s still one of the most promising blockchain technologies for the future.Blockchain is still one of the most promising technologies to help with the lack of trust of consumers in institutions, government, Tech companies and the like. This is because artificial intelligence is also being weaponized in democracy, consumerism, smartphone usage, app gamification, data harvesting — among other things. The U.S. is badly lagging in algorithm regulation. Cybersecurity and data breaches are a monthly occurence.Amazon launched AWS Blockchain Template, on April 19th, 2018.AmazonAmazon’s foray into the world of distributed ledger technology is sort of a big deal given Amazon’s ascent of importance in our lives. It’s already with AWS, the leader in the Cloud. AWS Blockchain Templates for Ethereum and Hyperledger Fabric.The AWS blockchain template provides a quick and easy way to use source frameworks to build and deploy secure blockchain networks. Blockchain is a technology that makes it possible to create an application in which multiple parties can record transactions without the need for a trusted central authority to ensure that the transaction is verified and secure. The blockchain can achieve this goal by establishing a peer-to-peer network, and each participant in the network can access the common ledger that records the transaction. These transactions are artificially designed, immutable, and independently verifiable. (AWS Blockchain Templates).Given the recent increase in regulation around cryptocurrencies and ICOs, this provides a more legitimate tool for developers to develop peer-to-peer and decentralized solutions, as well as new consensus based distributed ledgers that could impact a broad range of industries. Blockchain itself is increasingly in the news being adapted by major firms in how they improve trust in their ecosystems.Amazon a Winner in Blockchain ImplementationThese templates will let you launch an Ethereum (either public or private) or Hyperledger Fabric (private) network in a matter of minutes and with just a few clicks.While Facebook was the first major platform to ban Crypto related Ads, it has also been rumored to look into how to monetize cryptocurrencies within its own platform. What followed were bans on crypto related topics from Google, Twitter, Snap Inc., meaning a complete shutdown of Bitcoin and its brethren.If the Government and mainstream media (Big Tech) helped put on the breaks of Bitcoin, Amazon is making blockchain more accessible in this move, and Ethereum has a big role to play in this.According to CNBC, start-ups and major corporations alike are working to apply the technology to supply-chain management, financial services, property records and many other industries. Bitcoin is the first application of blockchain, yet has also been called the world’s biggest speculative bubble.However we live in the age of bubbles; debt bubbles, echo bubbles, digital immersion that has little to do with “reality”, cryptokitties and Advertizing duopolies, and American companies protecting their assets while being assaulted by a rising Chinese technological dynasty.It’s as if the entire global economy, venture capital and banking system was fixed, so rightfully speaking we might say that the biggest bubble is the wealth inequality amassed by the 1%. This will results in even greater losses of trust as the Middle class continues to decline, blockchain may be one of the technologies to help transform the web to what it has become, to what it could be.