
Value Creation & Preservation“Why PAX does it better”By: Louis Adimando, Esq.Each day when you go to work, you undertake the age old human tradition of creating value. If you are a solo practitioner, small business owner, or c-suite level executive for a large multinational corporation, when you go to work each day, your work output is the value you create. Your customer, client or company all compensate you for the value you have created, generally in the local currency. Throughout history the acceptable medium of exchange, or for the purposes of this post, currency, have varied. At some points in history, gold, silver, other metals or precious gems, or even redeemable certificates for said commodities have been accepted by workers and/or business owners as a means of compensation for the value they have created. More recently, this model of value exchange has been completely changed and it is the reason many of us in the cryptosphere are pursuing the cryptocurrency model as a both new and better way.Today, people in the United States understand money as a paper thing called dollars or “Federal Reserve Notes” which are just an I.O.U.’s to the Federal Reserve. “Why does this matter?” When your currency is a debt instrument that not associated with any type of real supply cap and is not redeemable for a real form of value (i.e. gold, silver etc.), it can forever be depreciated and manipulated. Every single time a new dollar is printed by the Federal Reserve, the dollars already in existence a.k.a. the dollars you hold in your bank account, instantly buy less. This is known as inflation — the supply of money increases, the buying power of said money decreases. Inflation destroys the value you create each day by acting as a phantom tax on your earnings. Each day the value you are given in exchange for the value you create buy less and thereby you are earning less. The Praetorian Group’s “PAX Coin” makes your money work for you not the other way around.Louis Adimando at the 2018 annual ICO Rating Investment Summit in AprilThe PAX Coin is a real asset linked cryptocurrency unlike any in creation today. The Coin is a security token as it securitizes the net profits from The Praetorian Group’s Real Property Portfolio (Phase 1) and the net profit made from their debit/credit platform (Phase 2). The net profits (securitized income stream) will be given as a dividend to PAX Coin holders on an annual (Phase 1) and quarterly (Phase 2) basis. This changes the currency game forever. Banks used to pay real interest rates on money in savings accounts, now you would be lucky to get .1% interest on the money you save. The Praetorian Group will ensure the value you create each day is secured and appreciates over time unlike any modern bank simply by executing on its business plan. As a PAX Coin holder, the value of your Coin will be supported by a portfolio of real property assets. No crypto in existence today has a value supported by a real asset. Furthermore, there is only , maybe a baby’s handful of government currencies that have a value linked to any real asset. The lack of a value link such as real property means if you keep the value you create in one of the non- PAX Coin options, you are likely to lose value day by day. If however you were to secure the value you create by holding PAX Coins the value day over day can remain stable or will appreciate as the real property portfolio grows and as a kicker, you would receive the net profits garners from the property . Each dollar printed represents an I.O.U. to the Federal Reserve Bank owed by the United States Government and ultimately ever taxpaying American portfolio represented by your holdings. What crypto or fiat currency on the market today offers you that value proposition?Louis Adimando at the Blue Sky “Round Table” crypto discussion in April 2018Next time you are working, ask yourself, “Do I want to work just as hard tomorrow and make less? Do I want to keep the value I create in USD or even a crypto like BTC whose value is not supported by anything and doesn’t give me any ROI outside of speculation?” If the answer to these questions is Yes, Best of Luck. If the answer is No, you might consider a value preservation and growth vehicle like the PAX Coin. Welcome aboard.For more information on the Praetorian Group visit www.PraetorianGroup.io