
How to get rich? Brickblock.io (ENG)Автор xbudahx — https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=197674Кошелек — 0x4e3aA9F804f962fB238aE852c16c755F1D53D237Brickblock | ICO starting May 9th!Brickblock is revolutionizing finance by allowing you to invest cryptocurrency in tokenized real-world assets. It is…www.brickblock.ioPersonally, every day I ask myself this question. Why someone got it, but I do not yet. Why can someone afford to rest on a yacht, and I continue to live in a small room in a rented apartment. Hey Universe I’m ready to understand why people like wine of the 1905 harvestSeriously, as long as I can remember, I always tried to earn a little more than the others. To achieve this goal, I was able to work much more then others. As a result I did not earn much more, as a rule rather lost time. It sounds familiar and disgusting, is not it? What is the problem?It turns out that I don’t know how to save, or, rather, correctly postpone the earnings. In his book “The richest man in Babylon” George Clayson reveals the most important secret of mankind. Imagine, you need to post each month at least one-tenth of your total earnings aside. Then after a while you will definitely have so-called free money.This is the amount that you need to make work for yourself by investing in something. Unfortunately, in George Clayson’s book doesn’t give an exact answer how to. I will remind you, his heroes invest money in the production of bronze shields for soldiers, and in the twenty-first century it is somehow not accepted to fight with cold weapons …Moreover I am a pacifist, so I would prefer to invest exclusively in securities, real estate and, surprisingly, crypto-currencies. However, there are so many offers on the market that the head goes around. How to understand who and what really works.But this is half of the trouble. The second is how to understand what goods to invest, what will grow, what will fall, who will leave the market, who will turn the market. Is this a bearish or bullish trend now? Does anybody even know how this works? How the hell does not lose money?You can, of course, use the services of professional traders. These guys know their business, for a certain amount these guys will collect you an average portfolio of securities, which will bring in a year 10–15%. It wiil happen if your portfolio doesn’t contain actions of Nokia or RUSAL. And yes, your brokerage agency should not be too greedy. As a result, the amount that is obtained at the output is good if it covers inflation rates in your country.But what if you want to get rich fast? Of course, invest in crypto-currencies. But here, too, you can lose and very much. There must be a system, some kind of a regulator that will allow you to earn well and at the same time withdraw money in the simplest way.Such a project exists. It’s called Brickblock. Developed by his team of 36 people, behind which a successful pre-ICO. This means that the project will almost completely pass the stage of the ICO itself, after which it will work in full force.This will allow all participants of the system:1. Trade in the real estate market in the crypto currency.2. To trade on exchange funds with the help of crypto currency without transferring it to Fiat.3. Buy shares of a company bypassing a huge number of commissions. This is because all actions within the system are anonymous. For example, when investing with an ordinary brokerage agency, the costs are ten times higher!4. In addition, the trade inside the Brickblock will go 24 hours 7 days a week, which is a quality difference compared to the five existing economic zones, through which trading at a certain point in time simply ceases.5. The system will work without delays. With Ethereum Blockchain, the input and output of funds will be almost instantaneous.Thus, we can with great confidence recommend Brickblock to anyone who wants to increase their income, and doesn’t want to share it with numerous brokers and clearing centers.The main BrickBlock tokens are BBK at a price of $ 0.6 per coin.The total number of tokens is 320,000,000Only 75.5 million are sold.ICO starts on May 9 and will last only 7 days, if Hard Cap in 50 million dollars will not be achieved earlier.Everyone can participate in a very generous Bounty company.The project team:More information on the following links:Official website: https://www.brickblock.ioWhitePaper: https://www.brickblock.io/Brickblock_General_Whitepaper.pdfTechnicalPaper: https://www.brickblock.io/Brickblock_Technical_Whitepaper.pdfFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/brickblock.io/Twitter: https://twitter.com/brickblock_ioBitcointalk Thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3345519