
Konios Project ICO start: July 1, 2018We have achieved major milestones in just 30 days+39,000 Twitter Followers +44,000 Telegram Members +Average 4/5 Star Rating on Major Platforms +60,000 Email registrationsThanks to YOU, we got off to an amazing start! This clearly establishes the great potential of the Konios Project and motivates us to continue putting our hearts and souls in this Project — day by day.Now imagine what we can get done with an extra 60 days?We want to maximize the value created for the community. We believe that by spending the next 60 days further developing our solution, we can offer the community a more attractive value proposition. We have decided to reschedule the Konios ICO launch to July 1.So many people want to know more, want to contribute their ideas to the Konios project. Every day we receive countless mails from community members who want to get involved.This active participation of the community and the recommendation of our dedicated advisors have prompted the Konios team to postpone the ICO launch by 2 months.ICO launch: July 1, 2018How we want to use the extra time:1. Solution. We will present a pre-alpha version of Konios prior to the ICO launch.2. Team. We will be sharing good news with the community in the next few days. This involves a new advisor.3. Investors. The last events where our team presented the Konios project were successful. Traditional investors have also become aware of us. These results encourage us to continue our roadshow.4. Bounty. The bounty structure will be adjusted to update posts and to include new topics. Bounty activities through April 30 will, of course, continue to be handled by the Bounty Manager. The corresponding changes will apply from May 1 and will continue until the start of the ICO.5. Contests. All community contests will be concentrated in separate surveys in order not to discriminate against the individual participants through inline postings.We make sure that our product is not only developed, but also used. With 60,000 registered users, 5,000 test users and a large community in only 30 days, the foundations have been laid. With the extra time we will put even more exciting results on the table!We are here, contact us, be active in our channels, send us your wishes and suggestions!Your patience and loyalty is our motivation.From Switzerland with Love Your Konios Team