
Verge (XVG): Price will Follow Mass AdoptionThe positive headlines for Verge currency keep rolling in, with Traffic Junky releasing word that they will be accepting Verge as a payment for their services. The deep integration into this massive ecosystem is no small accomplishment, as few coins are gaining the systemic traction of being used in large scale payment networks. One could believe that in the world of cryptocurrency trading, a massive price premium would be bestowed to coins that have gained real world results. The projects that have gained adoption and are being used for the purposes they were designed to achieve should be rewarded handsomely for manifesting the very fundamentals that are references of true value. Such fundamentals are a baseline upon which speculation can be balanced against. In the long run mass adoption and use will not simply justify a price, but it is the only thing that can assure survival for any crypto project. In the short run, expecting the price of a coin to correlate to such accomplishments can just make you confused and perhaps frustrated if you have pegged your bets to these pack leaders. We see this clearly with Verge currency, XVG. While having recovered from it’s lows, it has not seen a stratospheric rise despite the steady and obvious momentum of the XVG project.As most traders understand, the short term movements of a price are mostly affected by the emotions of the market such as greed and fear. As traders chase candles, jumping between competing coins in markets that are constantly in flux, it would be naive to believe even massive successes, such as the Mindgeek partnership, would negate the other forces that are acting upon these markets on any given day. Such partnerships will and do steer the course to ultimate success, creating new and rising price floors as vendors and their customers begin to soak up trading supply. Success builds on success, and we can be sure that XVG has a clear runway to a much higher valuation. For most coins on the market the only notable achievements of claimed acceptance are the prices for which they can be exchanged for Fiat or BTC. For Verge, we are beginning to see how the hard work of devs, the strong support of a community, and eye on core functionality will eventually yield support beyond the traders on crypto exchanges. The large and growing community of Verge know this, and are not swayed to doubt by price volatility. The future will be bright for Verge, and those that hold for the long term will not be disappointed.