
The 2018 Crypto apocalypse:The year that coins die and investors lose all their moneyDo you know what a zombie is? In 2018 we’re going to see 50+ coins drop in value to less than 1 cent and become so thinly traded that they become abandoned by their development team or cease to be traded on exchanges aka DEAD ?.At Lightswap, we look into the data and seek out trends. The data is clear; a significant number of masternode alt coins (MAC) have nosedived towards zero.It‘s important to note that the severe drop in value has been seen across all alt coins, not just MAC. Nonetheless the focus of this article is on masternode alt coins as part of our wider focus on masternode coins and also because the nature of master nodes — offering a passive income — is both unique and exciting within crypto.Unlike the large cap coins and tokens, MAC haven’t faced recent ups and downs. Instead, they have suffered a steep and continuous downward trend toward zero.The data analysisWe looked at every coin listed on www.masternodes.onlineWe excluded the coins that don’t have a recorded market cap figure as data for these are potentially erroneous. We then analysed the price movements for each of these coins over the last calendar year.The result is shocking:28% of all masternode alt coins have lost more than 95% of their value in the last year75% of all masternode coins are valued at less than they were one year ago.The table below shows every masternode, the price a year ago (start_price), the price yesterday (16 April 2018), the percentage change in price, and the market capitalisation. All figures are in US dollars. The original source of this data is: www.masternodes.onlineMany MAC were released during the all time highs at the end of 2017 and so had lofty price tags. Naturally these will fall the hardest. However, even newer MAC that had been more reasonably priced from the beginning, as they were released during the crypto winter of 2018, have faced a similar fate.Why has this happened?Many of these coins lacked economic sense. Many MAC attracted users (node owners) with the promise of passive income but failed to attract end users of their coin due to a lack of red-hot features and poor management.Other alt coins were doomed from the start as they lacked anything genuinely different from the next coin and investors purchased the coin purely on a speculative whim, chasing high returns.How many coins will become zombie coins in 2018?It’s hard to predict but we estimate 50+ alt coins will become zombie coins before the end of 2018.