
VOLT , P2P Delivery Platform based on Blockchaingood evening friend ..How are you friend ? Is alright …. I think my friend is in good health, because you can see my article this time. This article is about VOLT, P2P Delivery Platform based on Blackhain. Well I’ll explain a bit about this VOLT for subscribers for shipping, and VOLT users can earn extra money as a courier for delivery.VOLT is a platform that allows centralized platforms such as Uber, VOLT itself connects customers and couriers, and provides customized algorithms for Big Data and systems suitable for using smart contracts for easy service delivery. VOLT not only ensures that the courier gets higher returns, but VOLT also eliminates technical limitations that allow everyone to use the system. VOLT itself has a blockchain-based P2P delivery model that completes the same day delivery restrictions more effectively than existing models.Why I suggest using this VOLT service:Volt plans to lower direct costs to customers and couriers, up to 5%, or in the hope of eliminating completely, while other models still play the Central Control role as intermediaries and receive remuneration in the amount of 20% or more.No intermediaries or brokers, leading to lower costs offered to customers, as well as maximizing profits for messengers.All customers and couriers or shipping companies benefit from privacy and transparency of costs and expenses.A secure payment system that allows two P2P entities is confirmed to send and receive money stored in Token VOLT until after successful service exchanges between the parties.Fund AllocationToken FlowA customer who requires the service can purchase the coin from the exchange.A customer will purchase 100 coin for the delivery service that costs 100 coins. The customer will pay 100 coins to VOLT where VOLT corresponds the reguest to the messenger. After the service is completed, VOLT transfers 95coins to the messegers. Approximately 5%(the rate can be adjusted to maximize profit) of the coin is used as a commission to the company profit. The company sells the coin earned to the exchange to produce revenue.The revenue is isud to maintain the company or provide devidens to the VOLT shareholders, but not to the coin-holders. If this process goes through a cycle, the coin demand eventually will be higher than the supply from the exchange, resulting in higher price for the coin. A combinatoin of olgorithms and current coin price, VOLT adjusts the coin /jule rate. In long term, coin /jula rate will increase, and thus able to own higher jula with 1 VOLT Coin . And consequently increases the value of jula.To see this ICO Roadmap, you can access it through this link RoadmapTOKEN DETAILS:Symbol : VOLTType : ERC20Token Price : 1 ETH = 50,000 VOLTAccepted Currencies : ETHClassification : Utility TokenDecimals : Not SpecifiedToken Sale Company : VOLT TECHNOLOGY LTDICO Start Date : May 10, 2018ICO End Date : May 31, 2018Token Distribution : Within 48 hours or less after ICO sale endsHard Cap : 2,000,000,000 VOLTTotal Tokens : 4,000,000,000 VOLTABOUT VOLT :website: https://volttech.io/Whitepaper: https://volttech.io/public/Final%20VOLT%20White%20paper%200410.pdfTwitter: https://twitter.com/Volt_TechnologyFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/VoltTechnology1Telegram: http://t.me/volticoBitcointalk: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3285508.0AUTHOR: cilikMy Bitcointalk Profile Link: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile