
ERP and CRM Software: The DifferencesWhy does every Enterprise need to consider implementing the right ERP and CRM Software?It’s vital for Enterprises to understand that the implementation of a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) or an Enterprise Resources Planning (ERP) software is not a mere technology adoption, and is somewhat a decision that reflects an entire Enterprise philosophy, vision, and mindset. Despite that several CRM and ERP software have emerged in the market, there seems to be no unified understanding of that very core idea lying behind it and guaranteeing its successful implementation as part of customer-centric Enterprise strategies.ERP — Process DrivenWhat are CRM and ERP similarities?ERP and CRM are distinct systems that aim to increase productivity and overall profitability. Despite both software having similar features of managing contacts, customers, quotes, offers, and orders, they also have differences. Both software should allow real-time information sharing using standard methods that do not require extensive training. Besides, several Enterprises use both ERP and CRM without any sense of cross-utilization or integration.CRM is Customer Centric, and ERP is Process DrivenCRM is a system for managing, organizing, and storing detailed customer information through standardized methods for collecting and sharing data and organizing customer interactions. The primary focus of CRM software is the customer, and the primary users of CRM are sales teams who aren’t necessarily responsible for fulfilling transactions and orders.In opposite to that, ERP software helps to organize and streamlining internal processes, and its primary users are teams responsible for the value chain for producing goods or services; procurement, logistics, warehousing, accounting, etc. While CRM focuses on customers, ERP is around business processes.CRM — Customer CentricDo you need to implement CRM and ERP Software?No matter the size of your Enterprise, it’s imperative that you improve both your internal processes as well as cultivate customers relationships. Hence, it’s advisable to adopt a CRM and ERP for all the reasons above. Nevertheless, be aware that the technological advances have democratized access to such technologies.Our advice is that you’d better not run into costly solutions such as SAP that will only trigger endless customization needs, massive infrastructure, and expensive consultants bills. Instead, think of what your Enterprise needs to optimize its business processes and interactions and get started with the adoption of tomorrow’s solutions that are adjusted to your budgets and scaling perspectives such as Asana, Pipefy, Vai, and Revoent.Customer-Centric CRM and Process-Oriented ERPLet’s think of how did the necessity to establish customer-centric and process-oriented strategies come to surface? In the past decade, business models in various fields have seen accelerated changes and advances in the midst of fast technological developments. For instance, buyer-seller model shifted towards a more customer-centric view where sustainable value creation gained vital importance that defines any business interaction, and customer needs had become a priority.In other words, hit and run practices that only aim to maximize profits reached its limits with the internet making it more transparent to access previously difficult to obtain information on products, prices, markets, etc. Therefore, the mindset in most Enterprises shifted towards perceiving customers as primary assets and ones that can lead to the success or failure. The need to prioritize the customer experience together with optimized processes became a crucial success factor for any business just as realizing the economic value in managing internal and external interactions.When one can foster such understanding, the technology can go into action. Though, again, it is not done merely by purchasing a piece of software, building a costly infrastructure, and training the employees on how to use it. Hence, it’s crucial that the Enterprise‘s leaders understand, communicate and live the vision behind any technological adoption, and commit to aligning it to the business strategy as a whole.