
How to be a part of it? A guide to the processWith the hype around new and innovative Litrabit Token Private sale last week, We were pleasantly surprised that we hit 6 times the registrations goal of 300K LTB in what we thought was going to be a slow process but to our surprise we had over 3900 investors register in the private sale, due to which we had decided to announce an increase in the amount of Token supply for Private Sale if the targets were met before estimated dates. But after the Private Sale went online due to some glitch in the Online Token Purchase Form. Many of the investors got confused and had been contacting us with inquiries regarding how to participate in the Private Sale?So the following instructions are to guide you through the process, To participate in the Litrabit Token Private Sale and get benefits such as — 10% discount on Future LTB purchase for 2 years, Profit on Litrabit every month for 2 years, Lower cost of services based on your investment tier, and Free ATM card Service.Step 1. Visit our Official website at litrabit.io and click Participate in Private Sale.Step 2. The first step is to register your user name and email for your official Litrabit Token Purchase account on our website.Step 3. Log in to your official Litrabit Token Purchase account.Step 4. Read through our Terms and Condition and continue to the next step.Step 5. There you will be asked for your Ethereum Wallet address for transfer of LTB funds to your account and verification of transactions.Step 6. You will have to select the amount of tokens you wish to purchase.Step 7. After completion you will be sent an email from our official contact at official@litrabit.io with specified Ethereum or Bitcoin Wallet address based on your investment tier.Step 8. You will be asked to send the specified amount of your purchase to that wallet address in one transaction and reply the email with transaction details.Step 9. After verification you will receive your LTB tokens and bonus — if applies — within a few hours, and at max 12.If you have any inquiry you can ask us through our official contact at official@litrabit.io or our official Telegram.Step 10. CONGATULATIONS! You are now part of the Litrabit family.So be an early bird and get the most benefits out of your token purchase.For details on the benefits you receive as an investor, read our whitepaper.LitraBitLitraBit. 5,565 likes · 5,328 talking about this. LitraBit is an ERC20 Token on Ethereum base blockcahin. Which is…www.facebook.comLitrabit (@litrabit) | TwitterThe latest Tweets from Litrabit (@litrabit). LitraBit is an ERC20 token, a cryptocurrency based around the successful…twitter.comLitrabit OfficialWelcome to Litrabit. Litrabit is a new system of trading exclusively built for the purpose of using in Universities…t.me