
A PEER TO PEER CRYPTOCURRENCY EXCHANGE PLATFORM.TOKPIE is a unique platform that is designed for a peer to peer digital currencies exchanges intended to assist individuals from everywhere throughout the world securely and effortlessly purchase and offer any crypto-resources at a transparent, straightforward costs, selected in any neighborhood fiat cash or coins, utilizing any installment strategy, free of charge. This is the best platform for individuals, traders, business men and women to exchange cryptos, without any stress. The Tokpie platform brings in the easy, safe and fair Peer to Peer crypto-fiat exchanges. No more fees, scam ads or awkward contracts. It allows everyone to catch the best trade opportunities on local, national or global markets and realize them through online auctions. Investors, business men and women on the TOKPIE ecosystem can carry out exchanges by utilizing extraordinary instruments containing parameters, for example, country, base digital money, quote cash (fiat, coins or tokens) and methods of installment (bank exchange, PayPal and so on.). With this platform, a user can conveniently and instantly buy and sell (swap) his or her digital-assets for any (even cross Blockchain) cryptocurrency without struggle. This is referred to as a zero-fee atomic cross-chain transaction. The cost of transactions between buyer and seller should not cost more than it takes to send an email or text messages. All that is involved during a transaction is just information about the owner of a tradeable asset. WEBSITEIn the TOKPIE ecosystem, ordinary users will make exchanges free of charge, no hidden charges, no middleman. Limits will be applied to depositing and withdrawal operations. A range of instruments enables traders to locate the best trading deals. These include real-time auctions organized in order books, price charting, price alerts and notifications, watchlist, top 10 movers, top 10 markets, and spread analysis for immediate arbitrage exchanging. The technique of grouping into tradable instruments” enables TOKPIE to give traders extra highlights that are not possible in other platform like the Cross-Exchange Spread Trade Analysis for Brokerage, Dim Pool Order Books, Full Dark Pool Order Books, and B2B Order Books for crypto-fiat exchanges, Crypto Indexes, Crypto Index reserves, Crypto Futures, Crypto Options, and P2P Decentralized Lending etc. The Price Charting tool feature of the Tokpie enables users of the platform to always have information on current trends. It shows prices and volumes based on the history of all matched trades. Traders can also predict future prices in a particular country. The spread analysis enables users to know where to buy and re-sell their currencies with the highest profit margin. The Top 10 movers’ tool of the platform shows up to ten instruments where prices have gone up or went down at a higher percentage rate than anywhere else since a preset period.WHITEPAPERTOKPIE does not tamper and hold traders’ fiat money as brokers or centralized exchanges do in other similar platform. As a guarantor, TOKPIE holds 95% of sellers’ digital money in 100% safe, secure with the use of multi signature hardware (cold) storage and deposits it to buyers’ accounts instantly after the payment have been confirmed. The Tokpie platform has a token called Tokpie with the symbol TKP. TKP token is compliant with Ethereum Blockchain and ERC20 compatible. TKP token will be used for payment of subscription fees, add-ons and interests inside TOKPIE exchange. It will be used to drive the engagement of users into the platform through gamification of support services and affiliate program The TKP tokens are utility tokens whose entire value derives from the services provided by the TOKPIE platform in exchange for holding or consumption of the tokens. The token serve as the only key to get access to the services of the Tokpie ecosystem. The TOKPIE token crowd-sale is grouped into two phases. The pre sale and main sale. Pre-sale will help raise fund for the promotion of the platform to spread awareness about TOKPIE and development of the platform. The main token sale will fund full development and adoption of TOKPIE’s exchange platform.The token pre-sale will start on the 1st of May, 2018 and it will last till the 14th of May, 2018 or when the hard cap of 1,000 ETH is reached. The maximum total number of tokens available for purchase during this preliminary sale will be 1,920,000. uring the token sale 1 ETH will be equivalent to 1920 TKP. The main token sale will begin on the 1st of June, 2018 and will end on the 7th of July 2018. There will be discount packages throughout the period of the token sale, but it will be higher in the first few weeks. So hurry up and register to claim your high percentages of discount. Some of the upcoming programs of the platform later this year 2018 are: The Private and public beta testing and the development support infrastructure.For more information about the platform, click on the links below:WEBSITEWHITEPAPERTWITTERFACEBOOKINSTAGRAMMEDIUMBTTAUTHORED BTT