
Website || Whitepaper || Telegram || Facebook || Twitter || Ann ThreadIn general, in the midst of technological developments, competition is getting tougher and the growth of innovation is remarkable, every company has a competitive advantage that is not owned by other companies. This makes the business people begin to realize that the ability to compete not only lies in tangible assets owned by the company, but more on the intangible assets owned by the company one of them knowledge assets.The result of this research is intellectual capital have an effect on to company financial performance, but if seen from each component, human capital and structural capital have not contributed as much contribution given by capital used. Where the capital used is the component that gives the largest contribution in financial performance. This shows the real estate and property sectors in the world still rely on tangible assets, so there needs to be more attention in the management of human capital and structural capital to provide a competitive advantage for the company.In the current era of globalization, the business world is growing rapidly. It can be seen from the development of knowledge, technological progress and the development of user information flow. This development is accompanied by a tight and competitive business competition. The existing business competition needs to be balanced with a critical thinking and optimum utilization of company’s resources. Thus, the company can compete with other companies both domestic and overseas companies.Property and real estate is one of the sectors for human life. In carrying out its daily activities, human beings can not be separated from this sector, such as the office or factory where we work, the shopping center where we buy daily necessities, the hospital where we, family, and relatives treated when sick, fill the time of day off, school or university where we study, as well as property and other real estate that is always associated with everyday human activities, and the most important is the house or apartment where we live.Property and real estate, especially housing, is a board need that is one of the primary needs of human beings, besides the need for food and clothing, so everyone has to deal with this part of property and real estate. No matter what economic conditions are going on, everyone should have the house where he lives to meet one of his key needs.With innovative outputs from SMARTRealty with Smartcontract features all of the property and ground rental solutions will be resolved.1 RLTY = 0.0008 ETHRLTY SMART CONTRACT ADDRESS: 0xbe99B09709fc753b09BCf557A992F6605D5997B0ICO ADDRESS: 0x44A16F9F7c67baFCbeB5D04a5D1f6248b1222ff7Token = RLTYPrice 1 RLTY = 0.0008 ETHBonus = AvailablePlatform = EthereumAccepting = ETH, BTC, LTC, ADA, ETC, BCH, ZECHard cap = 160 000 ETHCountry= USAWe do not have soft caps at all. Regardless of the amount of funds collected, this project will move forward and the development goes well. Hardcap for ICO is 160,000 ETH but we do not expect to raise that much. Unavailable RLTY tokens allocated to ICO will be destroyed at the end of the ICO period.About SMARTRealtySMARTRealty contract platform, The contract platform consists of a template system that allows contract makers to create SMARTRealty smart contracts that conform to their specific transaction requirements and adhere to local laws for their jurisdiction.Platform listing SMARTRealty , SMARTRealty’s platform listing will allow property owners to list their properties for rent or sale, and will distribute this list to many other real estate and rental sales sites across the web.Token RLTY , Token RLTY is an official SMARTRealty token for use with SMARTRealty smart contract. Payments can be made in the primary currency (crypto and fiat), but will be automatically converted to RLTY tokens so payments are recorded and tracked correctly.How does SMARTRealty work?Two Parties Agree to Invest Using SMARTRealtyThis can be for the purchase and sale of a piece of property, or a simple one-year lease agreement. The parties use the SMARTRealty platform to consolidate their terms of agreement in SMARTRealty’s smart contract, which includes all terms and conditions agreed upon by the parties, including due dates, amounts due, the duration of the agreement, penalties for non-compliance, etc.SMARTRealty Contract Managing Inter-Party RelationsThe paying party may make payments using ETH, BTC, LTC, USD, EUR, or many other currencies, which will automatically be converted to RLTY tokens and applied to the SMARTRealty contract. Payments can also be made directly with the RLTY token, if preferred. The contract may even be ‘pre-programmed’ to automatically serve notice in the event of a breach, or to terminate after expiration, or protocol agreed upon by the parties when contracting and / or required by local law.SMARTRealty Executes and Deal Closes the contractAfter the last payment or variable approved by the parties, the contract will be executed and, upon expiration, the transaction is completed. Upon expiration, the necessary filing may be made or, if the lease agreement, the lease may be terminated and the deposit is refunded in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Such contracts may even be automatically arranged, if necessary, or new terms may be negotiated and new contracts entered into, if the parties agree.Broad international network connections and global publications are the indispensable and are the basis for high quality service and customer satisfaction.SMARTRealty excellenceSMARTContractsSmart Contract SMARTRealty consists of a template system that allows users to create their own SMARTRealty smart contracts that match their specific transaction requirements and adhere to local laws for their jurisdiction, protecting all parties involved with the level of security that only Smart Contracts can offer. .More Payment OptionsPay and receive payments with USD, BTC, BCH, LTC, ETH, ETC, and more. Payment can be made with the main currency (crypto and fiat), but will be converted automatically to SMARTRealty RLTY token so payment is recorded and tracked correctly.Best MarketingSMARTRealty allows property owners to register their properties for rent or sale, and distribute this list to many real estate sales and other popular rental sites across the web.SMARTRealty also provides an opportunity for investors to develop their extraordinary projects by creating an ICO project where investors will get some tokens from the total investments made.SMARTRealty will use a token called SMARTRealty (RLTY). All contributors will be eligible to receive RLTY tokens by participating in our crowfund campaign planned on May 2018.To succeed SMARTRealty project also held a gift campaign for everyone. By promoting this program through social media, youtube blogs and discussions via telegram, slack and in bitcointalk forums. It all aims to promote the relocation program to the general public. You can follow this project update directly to their social media above.Article create by SercoProfile bitcointalk : https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=976306;