
ShareDrop UpdateWe had previously planned to do Round 5 today, but we may wait until tomorrow. We only had a few good airdrops we could give SHAREs for since Round 4, so we want to wait and get at least one more good one add to the list before our next big Airdrop.Today ends our Triple SHARE bonus introductory promotion.The amount of SHAREs awarded will be now be at the normal rate of roughly .1 — $1 for 4.5–5 star rated projects, and much less for lower rated projects (if any at all).This is to ensure SHAREs are created at a value of roughly $9 or better.The exception being when SHAREs are earned for referrals.An equal amount of SHAREs earned for the Airdrop round are given per referral who also completes all the airdrops in the round. So if there are 1.5 SHAREs total for Round 5, you complete the airdrops and you refer 3 people who complete the airdrops with your link, you get 6 SHAREs total.They must be eligible to participate in all airdrops for that round for you to earn SHAREs for referring them. You must have also completed all of that round’s airdrops to be eligible. (We do not count against those that are excluded due to residency in U.S./CHINA)If they do not meet these requirements they may still enter our Airdrops but you will not earn SHAREs for referring them. In theory, once a user finds their way to our platform, referral SHAREs should only paid once to invite them.Once referral tokens begin to arrive in our ETH address, we will send them to the asset pool. Our game plan is to quickly sell 50% of the supply or more for DGX (once the tokens are listed on an exchange), and the remaining tokens as they gain value. Those tokens will back the total circulating supply of SHAREs. (which consists of the 5,000 pre-mined for bounties, and the SHAREs earned/minted through our airdrops since launch)The value of each SHARE will be:Asset Pool Value / Circulating supply = SHARE token value $Once we build our new site (still looking for a good web dev! currently exploring partnership options) we will then turn our focus on creating our exchange.The exchange will be the final crucial piece to our project. Enabling the SHARE token holders to burn their SHAREs in exchange for the tokens backing them (a majority of which will be DGX).There will be a % fee collected (TBD) which will remain in the pool and increase the value of the remaining tokens and the supply will be decreased as the tokens are burnt.We can then re-evaluate our roadmap and see what needs to be done to further improve the entire blockchain viral marketing and bounty ecosystem.Our Mission from Day 1 has been to help GOOD projects hit their hard caps and at the same time reward the users as much as we possibly can for their part in making that happen!You are positively impacting the world and making money at the same time.It has never been easier or more rewarding to do something good for the planet!Thank you for being the best part of ShareDrop, and stay tuned for more!