
Talao ICO ReviewOverviewDate of the review: 21/04/2018Project name: TalaoTicker: TALAOToken type : ERC-20 ( Ethereum)Presale start: 20/05/2018 (pinned on their TG)Presale end: 27/05/2018Presale cap: $ 14 Millions (33% bonus and minimum 100 ethers)Crowdsale start: 04/06/2018 (ICO — Round A)Crowdsale end: 24/06/2018 (ICO — Round A)(2 rounds of crowdsale : round B will run next year with the remaining tokens from round A : they are frozen during one year)Hardcap: $20 Millions (only for ICO — Round A, total supposed $60–70 millions for Round A + Round B)Price per token: $0.65Total tokens minted: 150 000 000Total tokens sold: 67%Supply (sold tokens): 100 000 000 for sale (ICO — Round A + Round B)Unsold tokens: unsold token after round B will be burned.Max TIS index: 4Chat members:  Telegram :11810 Twitter : 1600 medium : 171 promotional video views : 193Hype: 14%RATING: 74%> Full report in pdf format <DISCLAIMER: This report is for informational purposes only and is not financial advice. The authors are not financial advisors neither. You have the responsibility to do your own research and take your own decision.IntroductionThe freelance market is in expansion: its global size is estimated to $50 billion in 2017 and keeps growing each year. More than 100 millions freelancers are already operational around the world today, and can get in touch with companies thanks to centralized platforms.However, it appears around 80% freelancers don’t use these platforms, mainly because of the following issues:Platforms are charging on average 15–20% fees / commissions.Platforms are keeping users personal data.Freelancers have no control over their reputation.Talao (TALent Autonomous Organisation), a French company, was built to solve these problems. It aims to participate in the future of work by building a customized network that will facilitate and renew the meeting between companies and talented freelancers. By using the blockchain technology, Talao wants to bring decentralization, transparency, security and reduced costs to the online talent on-demand sector.This network will…Charge no fees or commissions for freelancers.Give the control of personal datas back to the user via a digital vault.Certify skills and reputation via statement of previous employers stored on the blockchain .Talao has an existing business as Nicolas Muller, its CEO, had created the Emindhub startup in 2015. It is a centralized and secured platform where companies could find and hire experts mainly from the aeronautic sector. This platform is using a token system to exchange value between its users. Emindhub became Talao on the 4th of march 2018 and moves step by step from a centralized platform to a decentralized network built on the Ethereum blockchain.The TALAO Token will offer the following functionalities:Missions payments : on the Talao’s network, freelancers can be paid with Bitcoin, Ethereum or Talao tokens. Premium functions payments for companies: “top of the list” for instance.To be able to open a digital vault to stock personal data, users need to stake a certain amount of tokens. Companies will need Talao tokens to open users’ personal vaults via public keys.Users will be able to earn extra tokens by recommending new talented freelancers to the network.A voting system based on reputation will run the network (DAO : Decentralized Autonomous Organisation).Concurrence and market nicheThe freelance sector has experienced spectacular growth in recent years. These self-employed workers already make up 35% of the American working population and, according to the Freelancers Union syndicate «more than 50% of the working population in the United States in 2027» [1].Concurrence with the centralized platformsThe level of competition is high as many centralized platforms already occupy the freelancing market. They are well established and growing exponentially (see picture below [2]):Upwork : over 14 millions users in 180 countries. $1B in annual freelancer billings [3]. All types of freelancers.Toptal : top freelance software developers, designers and finance experts.Freelancer : very similar to Upwork.Talao could however come to blur the cards thanks to the implementation of blockchain technology. The elimination of costs, the security of user data and shared governance are indeed important contributions in this sector. Yet is should be noticed other decentralised platforms are being created or are already operational.Concurrence in the blockchain spaceedev.one : freelancing platform using blockchain technology to ensure payments (escrow system). Freelancers fees 10%. No ICO.Blocklancer : decentralized job marketplace operating on the Ethereum blockchain. Fees 3% are going back to token holders. Voting system. ICO is finished (no volume on LNC token: roi eth : -72%).ConnectJob : decentralized App connecting people locally to buy or offer services (no full time jobs). Fees 20% on launch supposed to be reduced to 10%. ICO is live until 30 April.CanYa : decentralized marketplace of services. ICO december 2017 : $12 Millions. ( roi eth : -54%) Low fees : 1%.Although these projects seem less successful than Talao, their return on investment is disappointing. These results call for caution.[1]: https://zevillage.net/future-of-work/freelances-etats-unis-2027/[2]: https://biz30.timedoctor.com/online-outsourcing-future/[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UpworkTeam and advisorsThe Talao team has several senior profiles, with strong experience in the engineering / consulting field:Nicolas Muller: CEO & co-founderMission Director Ernst & Young (4 years)Senior Consultant Sopra (3 years)Thierry Thevent: COO & co-founderProject Director Capgemini (5 years)Denis Laffont-Trevisan: Head of Growth & co-founderCTO & Business Dev Capgemini (10 years)Maxime Hagenbourger: Blockchain Team LeaderCTO BlockChain Partner (2 mois)Guillaume Duveau: Lead DeveloperWeb Developer CNRS (12+ years)No doubt they can be in an advantage position with their actual solution eMindHub but regarding the new blockchain based solution Talao, Maxime Hagenbourger seems to be the only one experienced in blockchain.Regarding the advisors, they are an important asset for this project, with top profiles and diversified strong skills:Fabien PotencierProject leader on Symfony PHP framework (14 years)François DavyCEO Foncia (6 years)CEO Adecco (4 years)Stéphane FoulksVP of HavasDevelopment of the product/serviceAs of April 2018 they only have a prototype of the main functionalities, available on Github [4], with around 170 commits (February 2017 — April 2018)We tested the proto and it’s running, but the team will have to hire very soon good profiles to be able deliver what is promised in their roadmap; they still have a long way to go.[4]: https://github.com/TalaoDAO/daoRoadmapTalao has a 5 years detailed roadmap, that cover both, technical and business aspects. We also get a clear overview on the budget allocation.The distributed marketplace Talao won’t be delivered before Q3 2019 and full DAO planned for 2021. Until then, they plan to have a smooth transition developing first GAIA version, which is the mixed centralized and distributed evolution of the eMindHub [5].Talao expects a target of 5 millions users in 2022, which is really ambitions as only 30 000 experts are registered on Talao’s platform today.To achieve these objectives, they plan to recruit several profiles to build «a team of 35 from (2019) to 60 people (2023) full time, 30 people based in Paris offices and 30 in foreign countries» [6][5] Talao whitepaper, page 47[6] Talao whitepaper, page 58ConclusionTalao’s roadmap is quite long, and the challenge is big to grow its customer base significantly. For short term, we are: NegativeIf the team succeed to hire good blockchain profiles, we are confident in their capacity to deliver, combined with the strong business skills of their cofounders. For long term, we are: NeutralPositive aspectsStrong Team and Advisors.Crystal clear roadmap.First 0 fee decentralized marketplace in the talent on-demand sector.Reputation: blockchain technology resolves the falsification of resumes problem.First basis of customers (Thales / Assystem / Airbus) and Havas as advisor.Probably among the first ICOs on the french whitelist which will be established by the AMF (Autorité des Marchés Financiers) under the french government authority.Negative aspectsHigh hard cap (with 2 rounds, round B might be a potential risk for investors).Lack of blockchain profile.Big challenge for the business development to increase Talao’s customer base.Bad ROI for previous ICOs in this sector.DISCLAIMER: This report is for informational purposes only and is not financial advice. The authors are not financial advisors neither. You have the responsibility to do your own research and take your own decision.