
Huobi Talk: getting paid to learn about cryptocurrency.Dear fellow crypto-enthusiasts, I would like to draw your attention to the live streams of Huobi Talk. As many of you may know, Huobi (https://www.huobi.pro/) is a digital asset exchange, that is currently ranked in the top 3 of daily trading volume. To educate their community about current and upcoming cryptocurrency projects, Huobi hosts a weekly cryptocurrency talk show called Huobi Talk.Huobi TalkHuobi Talk is a talk show featuring various high-profile cryptocurrency projects, such as: NEM (XEM), Odyssey (ODN), ArcBlock (ABT), Matrix (MAN), and others. During the talk these companies provide valuable information about their project, the technology and their plans for the future. Also, there is room for the viewers to ask questions, making Huobi Talk very interactive and informative.But wait, that is not all !!!During their talks, Huobi also gives away a large amount of tokens to its viewers. These tokens mostly represent the company that is featured that day, but may also include other tokens. The amount of tokens each viewer receives is determined by the amount of viewers that watch the show. Hence, the more people that are watching the higher the reward will be. (see the screenshot below as an example of the Huobi Talk held on 5-April-2018). On average the value of the tokens given away can vary, but mostly range between 5 and 30 dollars. Definitely not a bad deal to gain valuable knowledge on high profile cryptocurrency projects and get paid for it at the same time.Next Huobi Talk (episode 27)The next Huobi Talk, featuring LITEX, a decentralized payment ecosystem, will be held on Thursday, 19-April-2018, at 12pm (GMT+8). You can follow this live stream at https://www.youtube.com/c/HuobiPro/liveSteps to qualify for the Airdrop:1. Sign up an account at Huobi.pro to get your Huobi UID2. Effective time is from 12:00pm (GMT +8) to the end of the live streaming3. Post a message on the YouTube Live Chat, remember to insert your Huobi UID12345678 @ VOTE ON HADAX. At the end of the live streaming, the view numbers will decide the airdrop prize to be given out.So set your alarm and be sure to check it out!