
What makes blockchains secure? (1/5)I recently found myself stuck in a rabbit hole that involved academic work on blockchains. I’ve been interested in this topic because I never felt at ease with the security and performance guarantees of blockchain protocols — after all, even though these protocols are relatively easy to describe and implement, they appear to have far more attack vectors than a standard distributed system, such as a distributed database or file system. Moreover, the probabilistic nature of blockchains suggests that there might be some deeper phenomena that underly the empirical success and stability of Bitcoin and Ethereum. As blockchains combine probability, game theory, cryptography, and distributed systems, it is natural for a probabilist to ask questions about phase transitions, stable Nash equilibria, and random walks on miner graphs. For instance, one might ask questions like, “Does the law for the length of the Bitcoin chain obey a Galton-Watson process? Is this process far from criticality?” The answers to these questions are likely to reveal some hidden secrets about security, transaction rate, and quality of service within blockchains and will help us engineer more complicated distributed block data structures. This series of blog posts will focus on the illuminating facets of the following questions:What is the relationship between blockchain security analysis and the traditional analysis of distributed systems?How does a blockchain’s security parameters control transaction rate, quality of service, and other practical metrics for distributed algorithms?How do we define centralization in a way that respects all of the different attack vectors of a blockchain?Can we connect the likelihood of grinding attacks in Proof of Stake systems to a traditional probabilistic object (e.g. a mixing time of some Markov Chain)?I aim to use a combination of the academic literature on blockchains and the theory of discrete random walks as a starting point for developing a precise relationship between probability and blockchains. This post will focus on the first question and will be less technical. The upcoming posts will focus more on technical details and posit probabilistic conjectures about blockchains. I should note that I initially wrote a much longer post that aimed to answer all of these questions in one post, but I soon realized that there was too much to say in one sitting!Warning: We are likely a long way off from having a great tome such as Probability on Trees and Networks by Lyons and Peres for blockchains. I just wanted to get some ideas that I’ve been sitting on out in the open ?A Galton-Watson tree near criticality; the color represents distance from the root (picture: Igor Kortchemski)