
VOTE NOW: Hive Project competes for Benzinga 2018 Global Fintech Award!After the successful release of our DEMO version and the strong business and product development already under our belt, we have already started seeing traction with end-users in Slovenia, our first target market. And we again have the opportunity to stand out from the crowd if we win the Benzinga 2018 Global Fintech Award — but we need your help to achieve it!Vote for Hive Project here: https://benzingafintechawards.com/vote-2018/hive-project/As well as the increased recognition we have recorded, we are also seeing increased attention from opinion makers in the global crypto space. After winning Best ICO at CoinAgenda Global in Barcelona, Hive Project is now in the running for another industry award — “Best Use of Blockchain” at the Benzinga Global FinTech Awards. We are leading in this category but we are also in the running for the main award — best global fintech company!All you need to do in order to VOTE FOR HIVE PROJECT is go HERE and SHARE THE STATUS on Twitter or Facebook.We are especially pleased to note that this award is coming from one of the most respected corners of the fintech industry. Benzinga is a dynamic and innovative financial media outlet that prides itself on giving investors high-quality content that is coveted by everyone in the fintech industry —traditional players and newcomers alike. But the benefits are potentially even bigger. Benzinga syndicates video content through its vast partner network, which includes Yahoo Finance, MSN, CNNMoney, and records monthly views of approximately 20 million.Hive Project is currently leading the social voting in its own category and second place in terms of the overall votes!Last year, this prestigious accolade was awarded to AlphaPoint, who has since gone from strength to strength, establishing partnerships with household names such as Intel, Microsoft and RedHat, as well as trying out their distributed ledger technology with Scotiabank, an international bank headquartered in Toronto, Canada. As can be seen, the winners of this award tend to go on to bigger and better things.And now, with Hive Project currently leading the social voting in its own category and second place in terms of the overall votes, we need our amazing community to back us yet again as we prepare to kick for the line and secure Hive Project’s place among blockchain’s best and brightest stars. We are currently lagging around 300 votes behind the front runner, and the race is hotting up!Hive Project’s votes to date for the Benzinga awardsThe target we need to beatVoting could not be easier. All you need to do is go HERE and SHARE THE STATUS on Twitter or Facebook. If you share it on Facebook, it needs to be shared publicly for the “vote” to count. The number of votes you can make are UNLIMITED, and all votes will be counted and updated periodically.The award winners will be unveiled on 15 May in New York, with Hive Project’s board members — Jure Soklic, Dejan Jovanovic and Ugur Yildirim — all in attendance. Let’s do this and get Hive Project in the limelight once again. It’s our natural environment!In the meantime, be sure to join our active, thriving and ever-growing TELEGRAM community HERE and be the first to receive all our news! Our amazing team and community are waiting for you!