
Announcing the Official IRIS Pre-Sale LaunchWe are proud and humbled by the overwhelming community support that has come our way in such a short amount of time. Tens of thousands of people from all over the world have already affirmed our vision to transform patient-centered care and access to medical data: improving healthcare around the globe. It is evident that blockchain technology is particularly suited to the management of electronic health records (EHRs), a field where authentication, accountability, and the maintenance of an unchanging, secure log is vital.The Iris ecosystem, which the Iris Token is the lifeblood of, will revolutionize the supply of medical data by incentivizing patients and providers to upload valuable medical records securely to the Iris EHR. Miners will earn Iris Tokens for such activities, which can be exchanged for fiat currency or used to finance doctor visits, medications or health insurance.We are very excited to announce the official commencement of the Iris Token Pre-Sale. The Iris Token will properly incentivize the upload, maintenance and sharing of healthcare data.IRIS PRE-SALE OVERVIEWBegins on April 28th and lasts for approximately 45 days, or when the hard cap is reached.Soft Cap of $5,000,000 USDHard Cap of $25,000,000 USDInitial token price of $0.035 USDMinimum investment of 2 ETHHOW THE IRIS PRE-SALE WORKSThe token sale will allow the Iris supporter and user base to participate in the growth and development of Iris as it strives to transform global healthcare. In line with our mission, we want to remove barriers to entry and empower as many individuals as possible to participate in our token sale. Therefore, the minimum investment will be 0.1 ETH. Iris Tokens can be reserved at a starting rate of $0.035 USD. The pre-sale is scheduled for approximately 45 calendar days or until the hard cap is reached. Iris reserves the right to amend these parameters pending market conditions, but will keep the community informed at all times.HOW THIS CONTRIBUTES TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE IRIS ECOSYSTEMThe funds raised from the pre-sale will be used to take care of expanding the team, developing the product, and securing partnerships. Overall, Iris is targeting to raise $25,000,000 USD across its sale phases. In total, there will be 2,000,000,000 (two billion) Iris Tokens in circulation.We are proud that a number of partnerships have already been agreed to with various parties in the government and private sector spaces. Details surrounding these partnerships will be announced over the coming weeks. In addition to this, we will also be announcing a few exciting initiatives for Iris Token community members to earn Iris Tokens. Stay tuned for these important updates.HOW CAN YOU PARTICIPATE?Please follow the instructions for registration and whitelisting at http://www.iris.co. This is the official Iris website where you’ll be able to find all the information you’ll need to understand and engage with the Iris ecosystem. We have consulted with respected legal advisors from top law firms in Singaporeto ensure a smooth, legally-compliant and secure procedure. Rest assured we are working non-stop to bring Iris to all.Please follow us on social media to keep abreast of the latest Iris Token news and development.Join our official channel on Telegram Follow us on TwitterFind us on FacebookSubscribe to our SubredditThank you for your continued support!Sincerely,The Iris Team