
Liquid World Book: The Nasdaq of the Crypto WorldLiquidity remains one of the biggest problem that plagues the crypto world. One may go as far as to say that the lack of liquidity may very well be the preventing the public from mass adoption. In order to understand the liquidity problem, one must fundamentally understand the term liquidity.Liquidity: The term used to define the ability to convert an asset to another form, in many cases it is the conversion to cash without difficulty. In respect to the cryptocurrency markets, liquidity would refer to how easily one could sell without affecting the market value. In other words, a market without liquidity would result in significant price volatility when attempting to sell a considerably large position. A highly liquid market, on the other hand, would allow one to sell without price fluctuations.Once we’ve defined the term liquidity, one may question that the crypto market does Billions of dollars in volume each day, thus how is liquidity a problem? In order to address this aspect, we must dive into the dynamics of the exchanges that are present in the market.The first key is whether the exchange is built on a secure foundation and can be trusted with a significant amount of money. The numerous hacks that many exchanges have been suffering in combination with the irreversible nature of crypto transactions make it quite difficult to trust many exchanges.The second key to understanding this problem is the independent nature of each exchange, that is to say each exchange market is segregated. Additionally, there are many markets that are only present on certain exchanges further reducing liquidity.In essence, when an exchange cannot be trusted there will be less individual willing to put their assets on an exchanges and thus less liquidity. Similarly, when an asset can only be found in a specific exchange or market, there is inherently a lower liquidity for the said asset.This liquidity problem is being addressed by many new projects and tokens, with the Liquid platform by Quoine at the forefront of this race. Many have compared the Liquid World Book to the likes of the NYSE and their order routing in traditional stock markets. That is to say, traditional institutional markets manage trades via brokers who have access to the markets. A traditional trade would comprise of:Investor Sending a trade to a Broker via web or bank interfaceBroker then executes trade on the marketTrade is settled after a settlement date and the investor is granted stock or security.In essence, the investor have direct market access to the commodity process but the orders and trades are done through a broker who has access to a liquidity pool ie; NYSE or Nikkei. This is where the current state of the crypto market currently faces a bottleneck in terms of liquidity. In the crypto market each exchange serves as a broker for the assets found in their specific order-book. Thus, even though the same asset and trade pair may be offered on another exchange, the two exchanges would serve as independent markets. Whereas a broker on the stock market may distribute the order on an exchange liquidity pool order book.Order Book: a combination of various buy and sell bid from all brokers would then match the brokers with their required trades.Infographic on how traditional stock markets function.Liquid by Quoine aims to offer crypto’s first multi-market order-book which will combine all the existing order book of various crypto exchanges into one giant tradable order-book, known as the World Book. Additionally one of the issues highlighted by Quoine is the fact that there are over 100 different currencies worldwide that are currently being used to purchase cryptocurrencies. However, apart from the major currencies pairs such as the USD,EUR,JPY and KRW, the remaining other currencies do not have much liquidity due the absence of exchanges. The world book aims to solve this problem by bridging existing exchanges to create one big platform whilst connecting different markets onto a single portal.The world book is expected to compose of:An External World : An order book that will consist of all the orders that are present on various exchanges and these orders will be currency adjustedInternal World Book: An order book that contains currency adjusted orders for those placed by world book users.Thus in short, the World book would contain an amalgation of all orders that would exist on the market from all cryptocurrency exchanges. Similar to that of the how the local stock market would function, the world book function as follows:Infographic on the Quoine Liquid Platform and Liquid World BookA Malaysian trader willing to buy bitcoins would place his order in the world in his local currency pair RM/BTC. The worldbook would then currency adjust this RM/BTC order to local currency for the seller of the bitcoins. Thus an American would then be able to view the RM/BTC order as the regular USD/BTC order and both parties would be satisfied. In essence, neither party would be made aware of the matching going in the background and the wordbook would process all of this internally.This entire process would be made possible by three distinct features of the wordbook as denoted by the infographic above.Currency Conversion: This component of the world book would automatically convert all currencies to local pairs for the individual trader based on real time Forex Data.Matching Engine: This proprietary engine custom built by the Quoine team is claimed to be able to match millions of transactions in seconds.Smart Order Routing: This routing system would enable orders from various exchanges and markets internally and externally. Thus, an order would first be given priority on the internal world book and if no match is found on the internal system, then it would get routed to an external exchange.In addition to the liquidity, another key feature of Quoine aims to provide with the liquid platform is Prime brokerage. Once again as seen in the infographic above, the prime brokerage service would enable an individual to trade on multiple exchanges without having to create trade accounts on each exchange. Similar to the functionality of the stock market, this would provide ease of access by:Reducing Risk: By allowing liquid to settle trades and not having to store assets on multiple exchange, one does not need to face risks associated with security breaches on other exchangesFull Capital Utility: The individual investor will not have to split their capital on exchanges, limiting their ability with certain trades. That is, one cannot make benefit from a good trade if half their capital is locked up on another exchange.Referring back to the infographic, it can be seen that the Prime Brokerage is made up multiple component.Direct Market Access: Smart Order Routing of the world book would allow access to multiple markets form a single point.Asset Management: Splitting up capital amongst multiple exchanges would result in a lower potential of the same amount of capital than if it were to be at a single place.Additionally, the liquid platform also intends to provide a self-service ICO platform. This would allow an individual or startups to issue their token via the liquid platform. The issuer would be able to utilize Quoine’s clients that are already KYC verified without going through the hassles of verified each individual once again for their own ICO. Additional services such as access on the exchange right away will make liquid the ideal partner for an ICO launch.Qash Token and the Qash BlockchainTotal Supply : 1 Billion TokensCirculating Supply: 350 Million TokenPlatform/ Token Type : ERC -20 TokenFuture: Independent Qash Block chainReferring to the Qash white paper, a detailed regarding the token distribution can be seen. The paper denotes that 35% of tokens were allocated towards the public sale. 20% were distributed to the internal management whilst 15% were set aside towards Strategic and institutional buyers. The remaining 30% token supply was allocated towards community and ecosystem development.The Qash token in the current state resides upon the ethereum platform and functions as an ERC-20 token. However, proceeding the liquid platform launch and developments the Quoine team intends towards launching their own high throughput block chain. This block chain is intended to be developed for financial institutions who aim to utilize the decentralized nature of the block chain. Qash will function as a token of utility on the liquid platform with two essential functions. The first function will be attributed towards utilization of Qash token as a payment method. The token will allow users to pay for all of Quoine’s services with the token, similar to what is observed by the ETH and ICX platforms. The second intended function of this token is to provide pairs against all assets. This will enable the crypto markets to move away from bitcoin as the main pair and allow Qash to become akin to the USD of the crypto world.Ideally the qash token will benefit the entire ecosystem, by reducing the market volatility and allow individuals to sell crypto assets at ease without jumping from exchange to exchange.The Qash team has a very in depth and detailed road map which dates back all the way to 2014, when the Quoine was incorporated. This is infact, one of the most detailed roadmaps to exist in the crypto world and the team has managed to meet every single milestone thus far. This only serves to facilitate and increase confidence in not only the team but also their ability to deliver on what they say.Quoine TeamThe team has a combined total of 250 years of experience in the Financial and Technology space, with experiences in some of the world’s largest financial institutions. They have not only been able to acquire the experiences but to also display this by the success of their Quoinex Exchange which boasts an impressive $12 Billion dollars in transaction volume.This impressive company is led by Mike Kayamori, the co-founder and CEO of Quoine. He has over 22 years in investments, banking and venture capital. He has served as the president of the Softbank group and also a senior director at Globespan Capital, a VC firm with over $1.2 Billion dollars under asset management. Last but not least Mike is also a Harvard Business School MBA grad.Mike KayamoriMario the other Co-founder, Preside and CTO has served as the CIO of Fixed Income IT Asia. He was also credited for creating Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities Global Development Centre in Singapore. He has also served as the CTO of Merrill Lynch branch in Japan for almost 13 years where he looked over the IT aspects for the banks.In addition to these 2 co-founders, the Quoine team boost over 100 members as well as many advisors and board of directors.Last but not Least Potential Return on InvestmentThe Qash token and Liquid platform aim to be the ideal liquidity provider in the crypto market. As of right now when assessing the market cap it can be seen the total near $400 Billion. However, near previously near the market high, the entire crypto market had reached a market capitalization of nearly $800 billion. Many analyst predict that the crypto market will not only realize the previous highs but rather hit the $1–2 Trllion mark by the end of 2018. The top 10 currencies as of right now, include many currencies that in many cases do not even have a single working product, whereas Quoine has an established an exchange with over $12 Billion in annual sales. Thus, it can be easily assumed that with the World book serving as a catalyst the Qash token can easily reach the top 10 if not the top 5 market caps. Conservatively estimating that Qash reaches the top 5 position would imply that Qash would realize a market cap of $10 Billion. Factoring in that if the total market size grows at least $1 Trillion, that would imply nearly a market cap of $25 Billion or nearly 100x of current market cap of the Qash Token.