
ALAT @ One.Trivia: Before the name ALAT, Neon by Wema was the leading favourite from a selection of namesALAT turned 1 on May 2nd, 2018. We had a mild celebration and spent time reflecting on how far we’d come on a journey that started as an idea 2+ years ago.Progression from our very early ALAT prototype sketches to Version 1 and now, Version 2The journey to where we are today has been one with a mix of data-driven decisions, massive mistakes, enormous amounts of support all the way from the Board of Directors to our colleagues in our parent Wema Bank and our customers and quite literally, God’s grace.We’ve also been lucky to have the best team on the continent, working together to constantly push the limits of retail banking everyday. The way we breakdown problems and course correct on the fly is amazing! The design of the current iteration of the app, compared to the first version is one externally visible proof of this.Today we have over 240,000 customers (90% of whom are new to bank for us), north of 1.6 billion naira in deposits, (800 million in our savings product alone!). We’ve successfully processed over 1.5 million transactions, valued in excess of 30 billion naira. The team has grown from 13 to ~200….all these from a standing start of ZERO, 12 months ago.Then there’s the awards. We’ve won them all! I’m personally not a fan of external validation via “awards” but even I have to admit that 8 awards from all continents in 1 year is quite something!All that being said, we’ve still got major problems hampering our customer experience that we innovate around daily:Know-Your-Customer (a.k.a KYC) is very difficult to perform in Nigeria. Largely because of 2 reasons; first, not everyone has a valid means of ID (government-issued); second, finding addresses can be hard when you are dealing with customers outside of Lagos. Even Lagos can be tricky sometimes.It’s hard to find partners that can meet our very strict SLAs. We have a few, but they are not enough. As a result, if a partner messes up a card delivery or address verification, it makes us look very bad! To be fair, sometimes this poor performance is due to number 1 above.Because of the first 2, our users can spend a bit of time stuck on ALAT Lite (our tier 1 savings account per CBN regulation). For some other banks this may be fine. They’d say “Well at least we have opened the account” and move on. For us though, we have noticed that customers that are attracted to ALAT are NOT tier 1 type of customers. They tend to have significant amounts of disposable income and usually want to start saving (by themselves or with a group of friends) or scheduling their monthly bill payments right away. Others want to get a quick loan or get our free USD virtual card. A full ALAT account is what they want from day 1. Lifetime values north of 50,000 naira over a 12 month timeframe are not uncommon with our type of customers.As we enter our 2nd year, we’ll keep tackling these bottlenecks to smooth out our customer experience. We’ve also got a slew of interesting products lined up to profitably delight our customers. Most won’t be outrightly visible via any of our touchpoints, but their impact will be felt nonetheless.So once again, Happy Birthday to ALAT and the team behind it!P.S. Shameless plug: If you haven’t joined ALAT, do the responsible thing and signup right away! All you need is your BVN, a selfie and a snapshot of your signature. And use the referral code PSCALU when you signup.