
ICO Developers Make Good on Promises, Boosting Overall Market ConfidenceLast year, the crypto markets saw thousands of coin launches. As we all now know, plenty of these turned out to be out-right scams. Fraudulent ICOs like PlexCoin, REcoin, and DRC have left many investors skeptical about ICOs. After all, with little regulatory oversight, what’s to stop companies from launching a new coin and then pocketing the funds?Fortunately, rather than running off with bags of cash to countries without extradition, many ICOs are actually working hard to develop the products they got funding for. Given cryptocurrency’s recent challenges with frauds and schemes, this is a very good sign. Lots of crypto companies are actually using the capital they raised from their coins to create exciting new products for the crypto community, and this is increasing investor confidence across the market.Halo Platform was developed by a team of people who really believe in the future of blockchain technology and the important services it can provide to its community of users. We launched a very successful ICO last year, but that’s just the beginning of our story. We’ve used the resources provided to us by our community to develop some exciting new products, and more are on the way!Strong ICO-Funded Product Releases Make for a Bullish Crypto MarketMedia coverage of ICOs is shifting from a focus on exit scams and Ponzi schemes to a recognition of the new products and services being developed from this new approach to venture capital. Halo Platform is proud to be among the most productive participants of last year’s ICO wave. This is definitely good news for the cryptocurrency market as a whole, which has seen prices creeping upwards throughout this month.Based on the recent performance of the crypto markets, the HODL crowd is breathing a sigh of relief. The markets are famously volatile, and the upward trend we’re currently seeing could easily be a result of tax season ending. However, crypto investors are hopeful that markets will continue their bull run throughout 2018 as more and more companies who ran ICOs launch products.Halo Platform is Powering the New Wave of the Crypto RevolutionICOs have raised hundreds of millions of dollars over the past couple of years, and this is a lot of capital to fund new ventures. It’s critical for the health of the overall markets that crypto companies make good on their promises. If not, the exciting new technology that cryptocurrency represents may be dismissed by the mainstream as just another way to defraud people.Halo Platform believes in the crypto revolution, and we’re doing everything we can to make sure it succeeds. Our Mainnet launch isn’t just something that we’re doing for ourselves and our community, it’s something that’s meant to have a positive impact on the cryptocurrency markets as a whole. As Halo Platform continues to create better and more useful products, Halo Coin users can expect good things for the future. We’re working hard to create value for the community, and soon we’ll all be experiencing the benefits of a hard-won battle for the future of the blockchain.Join the Halo PlatformHalo PlatformMediumDiscordTwitterInstagramGithubFacebook