
Decentralizing the Pig.gi AppAn update from Mexico CityWhen my brother Joel and I first started on this journey in 2014, we had two simple and intertwined goals:Digital Inclusion: In 2014, only 41% of the world population had basic internet access. Today, it’s 54% or 4.2B people. That means that 3.5B people globally don’t have any access to broadband. But digital inclusion isn’t binary, it’s a spectrum. The fact is, many of the 4.2B people that do “have internet access,” have a bare minimum connectivity. We want to include people in emerging markets in the digital world with full access.Decentralization: In Internet 2.0, centralized platforms vacuumed-up consumers’ valuable personal data, and offered that data to advertisers through opaque, and sometimes scandalous, digital services. Together, Facebook and Google profit almost 100 billion dollars a year by monetizing consumer data, and there is plenty to be distributed among an exclusive set of shareholders. We envisioned a solution where the budget that advertisers and brands spend to acquire personalized data would be shared with the owners of that data — the users.The first iteration of this idea was released as a pilot in 2015. It was an Android app available in Mexico. Users earned virtual coins for viewing ads, and they could exchange it for airtime or prepaid internet connectivity from Mexican mobile operators. Prepaid mobile credit, or airtime, is the most transacted digital commodity in the world and is used by 73% of cellphones globally to stay connected.We learned a lot in the first pilot, and after raising some seed investment, we officially launched the Pig.gi app on the Google Play Store in June, 2016. The app has evolved a lot since our first pilot and there were more ways for users to earn coins, like answering surveys, uploading photos, downloading apps, inviting friends, and sharing content on various social media platforms.The road to one million users has been a rollercoaster ride. We’ve minted our first (of many!) Pig.gi Millionaire, participated in Google’s Demo Day as the only startup from Latin America, and won the Seedstars Mexico competition. But hands down, the best part was hearing from users who have access to the internet because of Pig.gi and the impact that this has had on their lives.Through it all, we’ve vigorously protected our users’ private data. Though some brands, agencies, and ad networks ask us for personal information, we’ve always refused and explained that we only provide anonymized information about trends and insights, and we’ll never share our users’ private personal data.Our experience with Pig.gi inspired us to develop Siglo, a blockchain protocol for DApps that uses connectivity coins as a unit of value within in-app economies. This solution was built to address the demand from Pig.gi’s customers, brands, and advertisers, who wanted to reward connectivity coins to their consumers, employees, sales forces, and citizens in other apps.Beyond an experimental internet rewards program, we saw that it was time for a protocol that allowed brands, advertisers, apps, and institutions to sponsor the connectivity of their users. This has to be decentralized and based on smart contracts that anyone can view and understand. These smart contracts can allow brands the basic information they need to customize an experience, but give the user complete control of the personal data.Pig.gi under fireAbout a month ago, the Cambridge and Facebook data scandal reached a climax. Pig.gi has always been forthcoming about an investment agreement with Cambridge Analytica that was signed in 2017, along with about 65 other minority investors. Since the allegations of the misuse of data, we have taken steps to terminate that relationship.Fake news began circulating in Colombia suggesting that we had done work for a political campaign. Pig.gi has never participated in any political campaigns.On March 27, Pig.gi began receiving reports from Colombian users that certain IPs were not available. Colombian legal counsel assured Pig.gi that the government could not block the service due to net neutrality laws. The next morning, the press started calling us to ask what we thought about the block of Pig.gi. A court order was sent by the SIC (Colombian Superintendent of Industry & Commerce) to all ISPs, to Google Play, and to Mexican authorities. We didn’t received notice from the SIC until 2 weeks after the media did. The notice mentions an investigation and the “fundamental proof of journalistic investigation,” but provided no information on next steps.Pig.gi is complying with questions from regulators in Mexico and Colombia. In a video conference with the SIC last week, they denied there was an official investigation, but asked us to hand over our database and source-code. Our privacy policy does not allow us to arbitrarily hand over our entire database to government regulators without due process.Which side does Google play for?Today, Pig.gi is censored by Google and ISPs in Colombia without giving us an opportunity to respond or prove our innocence. Google has threatened to remove our app from stores worldwide and has not officially responded to our requests for reasons for the block. Remember, less than a year ago, Google sponsored the same Pig.gi app in its Demo Day in San Francisco. Clearly, Google is trying to stay out of the data scandal that they were indirectly complicit for.Ironically, Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. Almost 75% of smartphones in the world run Google’s Android operating system. Pig.gi allows Android users to earn mobile internet credit to power their phones.In Colombia and on the Google Play Store, Pig.gi has been blocked without due process:No assumption of innocenceNo net neutrality for our users in ColombiaNo due process for Pig.giNo proof of wrongdoingNo internet access for our Colombian usersDue to the censorship of the app, all Pig.gi resources are now focused on relaunching the app on the Siglo Protocol.Pig.gi’s user base is upset about being denied access to the internet, but they are excited for the relaunch of Pig.gi on the decentralized Siglo protocol. Pig.gi made the announcement last week, and top-up services are temporarily disabled until relaunch. You can see more of their conversation on Twitter.It is ironic that Pig.gi has been become a player in a political scandal about the misuse of private data. Pig.gi never shares private user data. The anonymized data that Pig.gi shares with customers is obtained with very clear permissions from Pig.gi users: earn Pig.gi coins for interacting with brands.The internet, as we know it, is broken.Consumer data, in aggregate, has become a > $100B USD industry. The NYTimes estimates that the data of an American consumer is worth $1000 a year. The problem is that data can be copied, pasted, accessed, and then recopied, pasted and re-used. It’s the same problem as the double spend of electronic money.All of this data out there is largely uncontrolled by regulators, and the legal agreements between users and these platforms are longer than the United States Constitution. Even if we assume that the new terms of service are fair, there is no way to know how that data has been used because it’s held, processed, shared, and reshared inside of a blackbox. There’s no easy way to control data or the double spend on information, and it’s almost impossible to prove that data (or any information) has been deleted or altered. In the case of many terms of service, they only serve to protect and minimize liability for the platform, as noted in recent conversations in congress.The Future of the InternetThe future of the internet is decentralized, and since the Siglo whitepaper started to circulate in December, we have rallied for smart contracts that will protect consumer data: users need to declare ownership of their data and choose with whom their information can be shared with and how it gets monetized.This has been central to Pig.gi’s business model, but now, it will be written on smart contracts with a source code that anyone can read.The Siglo team has reprioritized this smart contract, and a new version of our whitepaper is coming soon along with more details about our roadmap and timeline. Now, more than ever, we need to challenge centralized tech behemoths that broker our data in backroom deals.We need to stand up to arbitrary actions taken by governments to block people’s digital rights.We need technical solutions for censorship and decentralization.We need innovative solutions that eliminate censorship by decentralizing control and removing the requirement of trust.We need solutions, so we built Siglo.Full Speed AheadFour years later, Joel and I are still working on decentralization and digital inclusion. We’re optimistic.Though the journey won’t be easy, we’re confident that Siglo will lead the way in providing improved access to the internet and digital rights to the users of DApps built on the protocol.If you’re interested in supporting, please tweet this post with #FreePiggi. Get involved in the conversation about consumer data, privacy, and data sharing. It’s happening online, and in your local and federal governments. Finally, get involved with Siglo, and start by joining our Telegram.They tried to kill us, but they didn’t know we were [decentralized] seeds. — a Mexican Proverbby Isaac Phillips, co-founder of Siglo