
DApps Mass Adoption Will Be Faster with Good UX DesignWith the emergence of blockchain in gaming, there will be new users with variations of blockchain experience. These new users will try these decentralized apps (dApps) for the game itself, or for the potential money that can be made. This is great for brokerages like Coinbase, which has 10M+users and $50B+ amount traded. But there’s definitely room to grow. There are are new users who’ve never touched a dApp.But with the current Metamask-Coinbase integration in Chrome now (April 17, 2018), it seems to be designed for experienced users. If you go to the subreddit r/Coinbase, and you’ll encounter confused users. This is expected, because they’re in an emerging technology that will take time for mass adoption. And although they have proactive customer service that follow through user issues (kudos to them), these bad user experience can be prevented with good UX design.In this heuristic evaluation on Coinbase, I’ll focus on the Chrome extension, and its points of frustration. I’ll some give suggestions on how to make the experience of buying crypto currency smoother for first time users.Understanding & DiscoverabilityPeople are more accustomed to centralized systems, authenticating with just their emails, Facebook or LinkedIn accounts. These web technology had years of design iteration and have pegged their first time user experiences. Users can figure out what actions they have to do to accomplish what they want to do. Decentralized applications on the other hand, are just gaining traction. It is more complex. The terms and concepts are not mainstream yet, and it doesn’t have the same steps for user account creation or logging in. But with a thoughtful user experience, the value that blockchain technology offers will outweigh the minor inconveniences.For my new user experience, I had to go through 11 forms to go through 4 types of verification, which involves very personal information:email accountphone numberidentitybank accountThose layers of verification because it had to be compliance with the US federal and state laws. But there will be users who’ll be unable to do these, or who will be uncomfortable giving them out. For those who are willing to go through this process, you have to give them understanding of the why and how. Affective forecasting is a psychology concept that a person’s prediction of one’s feeling one’s affect (emotional state) in the future. And you can influence a person’s affective forecast and lessen their frustration when you tell them that there is a process. A tedious process, like this:And this is a long process that required different steps such as checking my email, my telephone, and wallet. If the player knows this before hand, he or she can mentally prepare, and will be more willing to go through it.Another UX violation is that the process failed to mention that an ID verification is required. The user can’t discover this, because this is actually in their website, which had a better discoverability.Screenshot from Coinbase’s dashboardAnother UX improvement that can be added is a simple visual indicator, like a pagination. It can be any simple progress indicator that could answer, “How far along am I in the process? How many more of these am I expecting?”A quick example would look something like this:Simple pagination to show progress, and creates estimated work to be done.Treat Users as GuestsMetamask and Coinbase, are in a great position because they’re first movers in the industry, and have become a web dependency for dApps. But it still lacks that new user experience. Power users, on the other hand will have no problem in figuring it out, but you’ll lose users with little or no familiarity. These new users could spend their time and attention to another project, but they’re already exploring yours. So treat new users as guests.You have to lead new users to where they want to go. Make them comfortable, and tell them what’s going on without sounding condescending. And most of all, don’t waste your guests’ time.Using the Metamask Chrome Extension, I went through the account creation just to have an error preventing me from buying ETH in Coinbase. It didn’t even tell me why. I couldn’t even recover and correct what I did wrong. The Brave browser however gave me a more meaningful error (see last paragraph).:( Coinbase in Chrome! You just lost my business! :PI had to research the Coinbase to see where I went wrong. This wouldn’t matter to me, if they didn’t waste my time. I’ve probably spent 15 minutes through these forms. This major block could have all been prevent if they. just. asked. me. a. question.“Do you have a verified Coinbase account?”And I could have answered that, and then they direct me to the proper website where I can do that, and not do 12 pages of forms.Seal the DealIf a user is spooked, it’s probably because they don’t know what’s going on. A confused user would rather cancel the transaction, especially if it’s anything related to money. So if buying Ether (ETH) in Coinbase via Metamask is a frustrating point, then how would you expect a user to participate in the game’s economy?In the bank verification part, the screen assumes that the user knows the difference between lower and higher limits. There’s even no link to whatever it is. I’m assuming it’s about getting loans? What’s their difference? Why is it even there? Why are you showing it to me? (But my best guess is the bank’s API automatically shows these information).Further in the card verification process, there’s another heuristic violation. I understand the documentation struggle. It is just easier to link to a different page to explain a complex feature to the user. This is a bad idea. You remove the user’s focus on the task at hand by bringing them to a new window, which becomes a possible user churning out.Card Verification documentation leads toThe process above is actually uncommon. It’s the same authentication that PayPal uses when you link your bank account to their payment system. But to explain that in a big block of words? There’s definitely room for improvement.Tip: Don’t open a new window, as much as possible. Let the user finish everything without having to reference a different windowTurboTax is really a master at this. We all know that paying taxes is complex, but they had a great documentation system that if there was a complex word, you just click it and the definition will show at the same page. And their definition is excellent.In conclusion…Allow users to understand what they’re doing, and let them discover what they have to do to accomplish their goal (buy ETH)Treat users as guests, so value their time. Let them recover from mistakes. Tell them what to do to fix things.Seal the deal, and let them “convert”/”monetize” over with good documentation and don’t lose lose your user’s focus.— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — -Brave !!!I used Metamask in the Brave browser, and it didn’t require me to go through those long forms. It gave me an error message that gave me more information than whatever the Chrome plugin did. So it definitely feels like Brave cares more about UX.Aside from that, Brave is totally a cool browser, which I’m going to slowly transition to!