
FAQs (As of April 29th 2018)PLEASE READ! FAQs and IMPORTANT INFOOur admins and staff will never ask you for ETH, any crypto contributions, private keys, or passwords in private message. Please report all scammers and impersonators to us immediately!Official admins as of April 29, 2018 are @cryptohedger @Light511 @youngsupport @thatsmochi @shibaji_i @thatsCoconut with admin labels by their names.FAQs:For up to date news follow:Game’s official acc is: twitter.com/gameblockchainCEO Happy Xu’s handle is twitter.com/gelertJoin the Reddit Sub! https://www.reddit.com/r/Gamedotcom/Follow our Facebook page! https://www.facebook.com/gamedotcomWhen will I be able to make full use of my pets/store: Full features of the game are currently being developed and will be released as they finish, including: battling, market exchange, mini games, name customization, and more to come.When will marketing start and new users come in? We will launch our full scale marketing campaign after the full features are done.What can I do with GTC and ETH in the Tron Dogs game? Currently only TRX can be used for all features, GTC and ETH can only be used to buy stores, but will support all features eventually.What can I do with GTC earned in-game? In-game earned GTC can only be used for consumption or conversion into our partners’ cryptocurrencies.Are selling stores to other users allowed: It is against our official company policy to sell stores in private, users do so at their own risk.How do I sell my store back to the game? Email support@game.com, refunds will be processed manually.How do we prevent bots: We have installed Captcha sliders for Legendary, Epic, and event dogs. We are banning plugin users who call our API too often, and implementing a buying limit for legendary and epic dogs.Economics, supply and demand of dogs? There is a limited supply of stores, and store owners will have exclusive access to certain features and rewards in the future, and will be able to sell their stores on the market. First generation dogs are being phased out gradually with less supply each restock, and eventually zero. Doggie economics is being observed, an final economic supply/demand equilibrium model will be decided once the full game is launched and projected userbase stable, it is too early and incomplete right now to make a conclusive economic model.Why are features delayed sometimes? Blockchain gaming, especially with a complex token economics as our game has, is a very new field with little support knowledge base or even blockchain engineering talent- all of our developers are trying their hardest, and are pioneering a field with no precedent or stackoverflow to get help from. Many blockchain features take time to test and debug, and sometimes unexpected delays can occur. Please be patient with us, as we are working our hardest to create the future of blockchain gaming.When will GTC be added to major exchanges?: Exchange listings are being planned, official announcements will be made by the CEO via twitter, anything other than official announcements are rumors and speculationTechnical questions about your account?: Email support@game.com (work hours beijing time) or pm @youngsupportWhy hasn’t mass marketing started yet?: The staff is heavily focused on developing the product and gaming platform, to ensure that substance and solid products are made before hype. This is a healthy, long term approach to growing a blockchain company.Is GTC ERC20?: Yes, and you can store it on ERC20 wallets like MyEtherWallet, and Metamask. (No exchange wallets unless they already list GTC) please only send a tiny bit to test your wallet address before sending entire balance, to avoid wrong address mistakes.What the circulating supply of GTC?: 300–400 million, with 300 million locked up on a company vesting schedule, 150million bought back to use as in game assets, and about 150 million on presale investors vesting schedule. Another 1 billion locked up that will be airdropped 1:1 to GTC holders who deposit and lock their GTC in our im.game.com app before 8/8.What’s the 8/8 Candy G airdrop plan?: please read https://medium.com/@gamedotcom/details-regarding-the-8-8-candy-g-airdrop-ba929b050839White paper: (currently down for retranslation) https://ic.game.com/download/Game.com_Whitepaper_EN.pdfWhere do I buy GTC?: gate.io cobinhood.com bibox.com okex.com hadax.comWhat was ICO price?: Ico ranged from 1ETH=5000 GTC(presale) to 1ETH= 3000 GTC (public sale). keep in mind ETH prices has changed since then, so try and price it in ETH instead of USDWhen moon?: Why not mars?FAQ will be constantly updated as needed.