
The CREDITS team has presented its use case at the World Blockchain Summit in MoscowBanks will be able to make transactions in less than a secondOn April, 26–27 Moscow hosted the World Blockchain Summit (WBS Moscow), a major global event successfully held in the United Arab Emirates, India, Saudi Arabia, Canada, Singapore, Brazil, Kenya and Germany prior to Russia. The CREDITS team was among the key speakers. We presented our use case for MessengerBank.WBS Moscow is remarkable by the fact that the real gurus of the industry, the top management of IT and blockchain companies, representatives of governments and large business had a chance to see each other face to face. More over, it presented new market players and startups seeking recognition and preparing ICO. Grand Slam, designed to showcase the ICO projects was arranged as well. The winner of the contest will be awarded with investments for a total of up to USD 2 million.Among the main guests were Dr Paritosh Basu (Senior professor at NMIMS University & Senior Advisory Board Member at Trescon), German Klimenko (adviser to the President of the Russian Federation on the Internet development), Dinis Guarda (founder of Ztudium Group, writer), Yuri Pripachkin (president of RASIB) and Maxim Chereshnev (secretary of the International Decentralized Association of Cryptocurrency and Blockchain).The main topics discussed at the events were state regulation of blockchain, its application in various sectors of the economy, such as financial institutions, energy, health, agriculture, state administration, transportation.Below is the brief photo report on WBS Moscow.Welcome speech by Dr. Paritosh Basu42 speakers took part in the eventAnton Kuklev, Business Development Manager at CREDITS, presents IT solutions for our partner MessengerBank: «Our team created a new open decentralized blockchain platform with internal crypto currency, that offers an opportunity to provide more than 1 000 000 transactions per second, with very low fees and full smart contracts»Anton: CREDITS is fully ready to complete the request of providing transactions in real-time mode. It means that every client of Messenger bank will be able to make transactions in less than a second thanks to: 1) new consensus: DPOS + BFT 2) Platform optimization for transaction processing speed 3) Reduction of data packet size 4) Distributed transaction poolingClients will be able to use fully secured wallet for sending and receiving debitcoin on CREDITS platform thanks to our special features which provides data protection: 1) BLAKE2s 2) algorithm Homomorphic 3) encryption 4) Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)Our speech aroused genuine interestBlogger Robert Schwertner is impressedDr. Paritosh Basu and Anton quickly found much in commonOn May, 16–17 the CREDITS team will be at Monaco International Blockchain Forum. See you in Monaco!