
MYCE Project, New Brand + New BotsGood morning, this is a new day for the MYCE project. If you have been following closely over the past six months, you’ll have seen through Medium, Reddit, Discord, Telegram, and some independent blog posts that we have been undergoing a rapid expansion. What began as the Mycelium Project before the hard fork has now transformed into MYCE; a dynamic Masternode project, with a decentralized governance model, and offering blockchain repair as a service.Our dev team has expanded, and marketing has been working on a full brand reboot — focusing on the image and the roadmap so that our mission and goals are clear, unified, and visually stunning. That reboot is happening now, but don’t expect fanfare, a big countdown, or anything like that. We have clients to serve and blockchain projects to strengthen; and that’s where our energy will always be.New to the project? Welcome. MYCE self-identifies as a blockchain ‘colony’ — we were going back and forth between words like ‘network’ and ‘ecosystem,’ but we decided that our central value is partnerships and finding individual solutions to problems that our clients bring us. We want those clients to become partners, and we want those partners to become investors. Like blockchain itself, MYCE will continue spreading as it keeps doing good work and proving beneficial to other networks.So — we’re a colony, which can provide myriad technical support services to other blockchain projects such as coin swaps, hard forks, masternode hosting, advisory, and customer service technology. Let’s talk about that last one, customer service technology:We’re basically bot-crazy here at MYCE. We can develop bots for any situation, and we are getting very creative requests for clients in need. Here’s an example of work we did:One of our clients, an ICO reached their hard cap quickly because of a really unique idea; but were dreading the launch date because they did not have the staff numbers to address the booming Discord + Telegram community. This was actually the nightmare scenario for them because the community grew from a few hundred to a few thousand overnight, but the ICO team hadn’t changed at all.The ICO knew they had to grow to meet the needs of the expanding community, but the bottleneck was killing their ability to identify their needs and rollout the product. They were desperate when they came to MYCE, and we told them that we could relieve the pressure by creating bots to answer the questions most often asked by the community, at a price that worked for the project. Within a week, our first bots were deployed. The ICO’s public image was not only stabilized, but stronger than ever, and infinitely scalable. The team enjoyed being in the chat channels again and meeting new members.And guess what? They bought into MYCE after that…welcome to the colony!Over the coming weeks, new materials will be rolled out from our team, which include the basics that you expect as investors and clients such as a new roadmap, and demo resources. But, if you want answers now, you’re our kind of person: Join our Discord and Telegram channels and ask us directly.