
How we pivoted and kept our integrity.P2P lending and Healthcare payments. They sound like two very different businesses but they both solve a very similar problem. At their core they both focus on helping people to cover unexpected and high up front costs.It was February 2018 when we had a surprising change in direction for our business. Originally, we built out a P2P lending platform that was going to be the first of its kind in Australia. Our intention was to help people make payments by borrowing money from others. It was basically going to be the eBay for loans. Sadly, the idea of people lending others money was perceived as too risky. It was a shame, but not the end of the world. In fact, it pointed us in a new and exciting direction: Healthcare payments.So, we began to brainstorm ideas that would pivot our company into less risky territory — still keeping our name ofcourse (Which was also a way to avoid facing the fact that we were stuck 1000 t-shirts with MoneyLoop.com.au on them).We put all the research we had collected over the few months on the table and did something super simple. We asked ‘why?’ until we got to the core issue of why people actually used payday loan companies and short-term loans in the first place. It’s always a really good habit for everyone in the team to question why you are doing something.It’s a question we hadn’t deeply considered before but a massively important one. There were three main reasons ‘why’ people were drawn to short-term loan companies, they were:1. Debt consolidation.2. Paying for expensive white goods.3. Healthcare and treatments with high upfront costs.This was the overcomplicated lightbulb moment when we realised our business could assist people with payments directly, almost tackling the problem before they needed to borrow money. MoneyLoop was reborn! As an added bonus, the 1000 promotional t-shirts we had just ordered would be useful after all.To sum MoneyLoop up, we have a similar approach to Afterpay, but instead of consumer goods we help breakup healthcare service costs which usually have high upfront costs and can be expensive into 5 manageable interest-free instalments over 8 weeks.Our team could all totally relate with this new direction and so could everyone that we spoke to. As students and young professionals, there are definitely times when you will delay a doctor’s visit and pretend your illness will go away or just skip the doctor altogether. This is obviously something we felt like we needed to change.Looking back on our pivot, the best thing that we did was keep momentum. We didn’t take a month to think about various different business models or research. We saw another opportunity only found by asking ourselves the right questions and the answers came naturally through our research. That was our very simple decision process and it ended up working for us.Pivoting was scary because apart from investing in stuff like t-shirts we had invested heavily into research, building relationships and other projects, and it’s scary to think that we may have needed to discard all of it. In the end we didn’t need to be worried because all the work we had already done would still be relevant for the revised MoneyLoop, it was just like the old MoneyLoop just tackling the problem a step before.MoneyLoop’s new beginning is in healthcare payments and it’s a truly exciting journey to bring something like this to life. The old Moneyloop might be dead (r.i.p) but the core commitment to helping people lives on through the new and improved.Check out the website here: https://www.moneyloop.com.au/