
Can Astrology Give Us Insight Into Bitcoin And Crypto Currency Markets ? Preliminary Results Are PromisingWith a back round of 18 years of study and practice in the age old art of astrology, and an interest in Bitcoin, I wondered if astrology could give us any insight into the wild and seemingly unpredictable movement of the Bitcoin price. I started out looking at the Bitcoin natal chart (Jan 3rd 2009, 6:15pm GMT, no known location) in August 2017 mostly for fun, but also to see if I could glean anything useful. With a Stellium of Pluto/Mars/Sun in Capricorn, and Venus exalted in Pisces, closely sextile Pluto, Bitcoin looked tenacious and impressive.The first thing I did was to do a little historical research, impressed with the BTC natal chart I went on to see if I could confirm two things,1) If I looked back at a challenging aspect alignment where the price should drop, did the price fall ? And 2) If i looked at a dramatic price swing either up or down, was there an astro correlation that was found ? The answer on both accounts although not exhaustive, was yes. #1. When Saturn Squared BTC Venus from 12/14- 9/15, the price should have fallen and it dropped and stayed flat the entire time, and sure enough it did exactly that. Also #2 we looked at the infamous hacking of the MT GOX exchange in March and April of 2014, the most dramatic event in the BTC lifespan at that time, we found a correlation to Pluto EXACTLY transiting the BTC Sun, an event that would be associated with secrets, decay, breakdown, death, destruction and finally rebirth and evolution and upgrade of the whole BTC system, which is exactly what happened. #3. we looked at the dramatic rise of BTC in 2017, esp August when it went from 2k to 5k in 30 days and we noticed that BTC was undergoing the 2nd of 4 exact Neptune Sextiles(1) to it’s Sun (also Uranus Saturn trine mundane)(2). This was enough to continue further study.In the fall, seeing a big series of exact sextiles of transiting Mars, Venus and most important Jupiter in Scorpio to BTC Pluto, Mars and Sun in Capricorn, I was able to predict the Dec Rally well ahead of time (3). The price moved up in almost exact clockwork to the Transits, esp Jupiter Sextile the BTC SUN in Mid DEC exactly as one would have expected . The 20k prcie of Bitcoin correlated EXACTLY to the exact Sextile of transiting Jupiter to the Bitcoin natal Sun. I was then able to call the price peak just before Mercury went direct and Saturn’s entry into CAP both correlated with a trend shift and bringing down to earth of the Crypto Market, mainly on fears of Gov regulation, exactly Saturn in Capricorn(4) bringing the fun to end. All absolutely predictable.With Saturn’s entry into Capricorn in Dec, and an exact conjunction of transiting Saturn to Bitcoin Mars FEB 1st -10th (5)(more gov regulation fears) (and a lunar eclipse on the 31st as the panic trigger) , I was able to predict the 31st as a trigger date, followed by a sharp sell off, and nailed the low within a date range of 7 days well in advance. I gave the range for the low as Feb 1–7, the low came in as 6k on Feb 6th. Once agin the low of 6k correlated EXACTLY to Saturn’s exact conjunction to the Bitcoin Mars. I knew was on to something now. Then based on the 3rd exact Neptune sextile to the Bitcoin Sun Feb 8th-March 6th, I then accurately called a rebound rally (faith restored), with a peak in the first week of March. After that, without any major outer planet activity in the Bitcoin chart in March and April, I called a flat market, with some possibility of a second sell off during Mercury retro and the Mars/Saturn conjunction on April 2nd, which again turned out to be right. These predictions were made in time stamped emails to a small newsletter group that I started in Nov 2017, as well as some market calls on Twitter starting in Jan 2018.Along the way I discovered that since BTC is basically the first crypto/Blochain, and the dominant energy in the market, we can use it’s natal chart as a bell weather for the entire market, to some degree, at least for now. I tried the same techniques on other Crypto coins, esp Ethereum but could not reproduce the same effect. Ethereum is completely unpredictable, and it turned out that other coins were following transits in BTC chart more strongly than in their own. However I still monitor the Charts of Ethereum and Bitcoin Cash (the top three coins) to look for mutual synchronistic aspects with the BTC chart to get a wider picture of the Market as a whole.That’s where I made a BIG discovery for May. I have also charted the Winklevoss brothers (prominent market players) and Vitalik Butrein, the inventor of Ethereum for more overview and correlation. So that brings us to where we are now…It’s all about Uranus now ! Uranus entering the sign of Taurus on May 15th could be the game changer we have been waiting for. In our full May-July report from March 21st (please email us), we gave a full analysis of Uranus entry into Taurus on May 15th as a possible game changer, with a high probability of this correlating with a new dynamic such as a large *Wall ST Bank entering the market, a large retailer accepting Crypto or a big technological breakthrough driving a rally across the crypto asset markets. *(As we wrote this report, news came out that Goldman Sachs IS opening a Crypto Trading desk sometime in May)Let’s briefly go over our basic analysis of Uranus movement into Taurus. The interesting symbolism of Uranus as a revolutionary, disruptive force, moving into Taurus, the sign of banking, money and finance (Taurus also represents “the status quo” while Uranus represents “revolution/dispruption/technology”) seems favorable to Crypto Asset markets. However our really interesting discovery was that when Uranus enters Taurus it will simultaneously make favorable aspects not just to the Bitcoin chart but also Ethereum and Bitcoin Cash natal charts from 5/15–6/10. This is the first time we have seen a favorable aspect correlate across 3 of the top coins. According to Uranus symbolism, we should see a rather sudden, dramatic change in market sentiment. Frankly this is one on the best astrological alignments of the entire year for the Crypto Asset Markets, if this doesn’t correlate with a dramatic rally I’m not sure what would. Whether we will see a new all time high, however is anybody’s guess, I believe it’s possible, but not likely. The main caveat for this analysis is that Uranus represents the unpredictable and the unexpected itself, when dealing with Uranus, always expect the unexpected ! We have a 6 month track record of accurate calls, if we do see a Crypto rally 5/15- 6/10, it will very convincing that astrological analysis can yield important insight in Crypto Markets and should be used along side tradition TA and FA techniques for the best possible results.Please email us at astrocryptoreport@gmail.com for our full detailed analysis, it currently by donation. Also please follow us on Twitter for weekly updates. CryptoDamus @AstroCryptoGuruFootnotes:Neptune represents faith, sextiles are supportive, The Natal Sun represents the Identity, so a Neptune Sextile to the Sun is very favorable and represents that the market has faith in BTC.Uranus and Saturn had three trines in 2017, represents tradition and revolution, structure and innovation, working in harmony with one another.Jupiter Sun sextile is a classic aspect of confidence and expansionSaturn in Capricorn is the classic archetype of structure, authority, Government regulation, but also maturity.Saturn represents Gov regulation but also could represent a maturation of this young Asset class.