
BGX | AN INCREDIBLE CRYPTO INVEST SUMMITThe BGX Team has continued its roadshow and visited the Crypto Invest Summit 2018 in Los Angeles. This was the most productive stop yet.From April 30 to May 2nd, the LA Convention hosted the “exclusive, curated, high-impact, informative and thought-provoking summit” presented by “some of the world’s foremost innovators, change makers and prominent leaders in the blockchain and crypto ecosystem.”BGX had quite a presence on the show. Two of our three co-founders, additional two founding team members, and two advisors were all present.BGX’s goal was to promote the platform, our unique algorithm, and upcoming Crowdsale to potential investors and partners. Moreover, we were happy to meet and greet anyone familiar with our project and those that just wanted to learn more about the blockchain.The level of attendees was great. We had less people trying to sell us unrelated services, or those that just stumbled in to learn more about the industry, and more people who were already knowledgeable and advanced in the world of crypto. We had an opportunity to answer deep and thoughtful questions, to speak with investors directly and to explain the important aspects of our project not just from the “what” and “when” perspectives, but also from the “why”.The event itself started with a stellar networking party on April 30th at the rooftop of the Grammy Museum in LA.At the party, we met some very interesting people. Some told us about their exciting projects and others were interested in potentially investing. Contacts were exchanged and the party itself was not only enjoyable, but highly productive.In addition, one of our team members — Alex Khvatov delivered an ICO pitch in front of an engaged audience. The pitch occurred early on the first day of the actual conference — 12:10pm on May 1st and throughout the next day and a half, many have approached our booth after being impressed with the pitch.The BGX Team at the Networking PartyToo often, our booth was overflowing with interested people who just didn’t have the space to reach our team members and ask questions. On Day 2 we expanded and occupied a second booth.In addition to speaking with investors and the public, some of our team members game interviews to the media — both YouTube and official media representatives. These interviews were not paid for, but represented the heightened interest in our idea. We spoke about the blockchain industry, about the need for a practical and scalable solution, and about the many benefits that BGX can bring to the $60bn mobile games market.Towards the end of Day 2, we started running out of business cards and flyers from the sheer traffic. We spoke to hundreds and hundreds of people across our two booths.Before we ran out, we captured the photo featuring our three flyers:All in all, the Crypto Invest Summit was a great event for BGX. As we are gearing up for our Pre-Sale on May 8th, it was great to connect with the investing public, see the tremendous amount of interest that BGX is generating, and to talk about our advantages with interested people.Until next time!