
Interview with the Cappasity teamToday, I have interviewed the Cappasity team on their ICO and future projects. Cappasity is developing a cloud-based platform that allows businesses quickly and easily create and embed 3D content into their websites and apps.1) What problem are you solving, why do you need the blockchain technology?The AR/VR is a highly promising field. Goldman Sachs expects the software AR/VR market to achieve $35bln by 2025 with 60% of VR/AR software revenue driven by the consumer. However, there is a major obstacle that gets in the way of the development of AR/VR industry. Today the industry is facing the lack of compelling 3D content as well as its labor-intensive production and disappointing quality.That is why we are introducing the first platform that solves the problem of creating and embedding 3D and AR/VR content in an affordable way. We believe that content creators will drive 3D revolution.The platform uses blockchain infrastructure to store and manage 3D digital assets copyrights. CAPP utility token enables us to encode copyrights to store them in the blockchain.2) What are the main pillars that define your company and differentiate you from your competitors?Our main difference is that we are the first cloud-based platform that allows businesses to create and embed photorealistic and interactive 3D content into their websites, mobile apps, and VR/AR applications without hassle.Cappasity is the first pipeline solution which solves all the problems of 3D product imaging. Our solution runs on a regular photo equipment. Our software creates a 3D in just two minutes allowing retailers to shoot thousands of products in 3D every day. It also automatically embeds 3D images into online stores through API. 3D View format loads in seconds on all devices including smartphones. In addition, Cappasity content is compatible with AR/VR devices so our clients can bring the products from their catalogues directly to the client’s home as well as sell their products in virtual reality. Another significant feature is that we actually track customers’ behavior when they interact with 3Ds.At this point in time, our platform serves more than one million views of 3D content each month.3) What value are you adding to your industry value chain?In fact, the Cappasity platform and ecosystem create all the necessary conditions for acceleration, optimization, and availability of 3D content production and distribution. The ecosystem participants are provided with the opportunity to have free access to the necessary tools for the 3D content creation. For instance, we provide API for the third-party developers and free utilities and modules allowing users to connect to the platform via websites, mobile, and AR/VR applications. We also support developers through Cappasity Innovation Fund — www.cappasity.vc. Thanks to the blockchain, the copyrights of the participants are reliably protected.Taking into consideration the fact that the ecosystem is the most convenient environment for content exchange, which is aimed at attracting the most talented developers, it is likely that VR/AR and 3D technologies will soon reach a new level in their development.4) Why is it important to protect copyrights and to what extent is the copyright protection in demand?Of course, the copyright protection is an issue of significant importance.Imagine the following situation. Content creators or app developers work hard to produce a new 3D model or an app. They spend a lot of time and put many efforts into their work. After the work is completed, they expect to be fully paid. However, a fraud steals their model or app and claims to be the author or distribute the content or the app for free on the Internet. Thanks to the Cappasity ecosystem, it is possible to completely avoid unpleasant situations of this kind.We keep track of copyrights on digital content using blockchain technology. Our digital currency — CAPP tokens — is used to encode copyrights to store them in the blockchain. In addition, we will provide users with an API to validate copyrights or retrieve data of a particular piece of content.5) What are the main obstacles to the success of your solution?As for obstacles, we are now developing a mobile application allowing anyone to easily create 3D images with smartphones. This process is associated with some technical difficulties, but we are successfully overcoming them. Our goal is to create a truly universal application.6) Why did you decide to launch an ICO and why do you need a public Token Sale?Our platform has been created and is still developing with the help of venture capital. By announcing a crowdsale, we informed a wide audience about us and our project. The crowdsale allowed us to draw the attention of those who were really interested in the platform and our technological solution. It was not the money that we were interested in, but in attracting an audience of like-minded enthusiasts. When buying CAPP tokens, participants became early contributors who showed their interest in 3D content and services.7) How does your token function within the platform and why is it needed? How did you decide the total supply and distribution among the crowdsale participants?The CAPP tokens are the company’s digital asset and their main utility is the creation of a digital license for the content stored on the Cappasity platform or partners’ platforms. CAPP tokens enable us to encode copyrights to store them in the blockchain.The cost of one copyright record creation is equal to 1 CAPP and does not depend on the exchange rate of the token. In this case, one token is used to encode one 3D View or one 3D model.CAPP is also issued as the only payment solution for the Cappasity ecosystem. All payment operations within the ecosystem will be conducted in CAPP. By using tokens, the participants can pay for 3D content or services.We have released the number of tokens that is enough for the development of the ecosystem. The number is based on our economic model.8) Where do you see the value of your token in the medium to long-term and the ultimate benefit for the token holders?The CAPP tokens are used to encode copyrights on the content created within the ecosystem. Our goal is to develop the ecosystem, provide its participants with all necessary tools for the content creation and protect their copyrights. Moreover, we plan to become an industrial standard — creators and consumers will utilize the platform services every day. That’s why CAPP is a utility token.9) Thinking about the future, what are your plans after ending the ICO? Are you afraid that the volatility of the cryptocurrency market might affect the economy of your project in any way?We have successfully finished the ICO and we are sure that the volatility of the cryptocurrency market can’t affect the economy of your project in any way. Our token is a utility token and the demand for our token depends on the demand for ecosystem. The cost of one copyright record creation has little dependency on the exchange rate of the token.