
How to make a profit with FTEC. Part 11. Does the diamond pattern really work? ?We continue to explore how accurately various pattern and tools, which are used for the technical market analysis, work. Today we’ll talk about the diamond pattern which, though is rare, maybe effectively predicts a trend reversal.Under ideal conditions, the diamond is formed by two symmetrical triangles which make a rhombus (diamond). However, under the conditions of the real market, such situation can’t be seen often. That’s why any figure that looks like a crystal can be called a diamond. “Diamond” is a kind of flat with a clear extension near the centre.Diamond is considered to be a precursor of the trend so you should buy when breaking the top line of the figure (resistance). That’s how we’ve calculated a potential profit which can be gotten, using the pattern trading strategy.The goal of this experiment is to determine if diamond on the graphic can help to predict a trend, in what cases it works more effectively, and what potential profit the diamond trading strategy make.For this experiment, we chose situations from 1-hour and 6-hour graphics to determine, on which time frames the pattern works more often. There is also a potential profit on the screenshots.We considered situations when there was a trend reversal as a successful one.1-hour time frame:6-hour time frame:Now we can make sure that pattern works great. On 1-hour candles it gives 80% accuracy and an average percentage of potential profit is 20,8%. On 6-hour time frames there are more impressive results: 95% accuracy, the price was growing by 32,4% after breaking the top line of the diamond.Although the pattern is rare and it is quite difficult to see it, we can’t deny its effectiveness in predicting price reversal.As a result of this experiment, we made following conclusions:Conclusion 1. In general, in 87,5% of analyzed cases, price reversal was preceded by diamond. That makes this trading strategy effective and accurate.Conclusion 2. The pattern has higher accuracy and profitability on long time frames. Working with the pattern on less than 1-hour time frames makes no sense.This pattern can be called a real diamond ? since it is independent and doesn’t need additional tools of technical analysis.The problem is that, like a real diamond, it is rare and difficult to find. Anyway, no worries, dear users! We can offer Smart Trading System and our algorithms will find such patterns for you!And FTEC Pre-Sale is live now! You still can buy our tokens with the highest 20% discount and earn not only on FTEC price increasing but also using our algorithms! ?Our official websites where you can buy FTEC:https://ftec.iohttps://ftec.aihttps://ftec.techhttps://ftec.company