
Confessions of an AirTM member — Save in stable currency to be able to travel around the world#AirTMStoriesPhoto by Slava Bowman on UnsplashTell us a little about yourself, who are you and where are you from?Hi, I’m Darlyn and I live in Venezuela. I work for a telecommunications company and in my free time I like to do jobs to earn $ in many PTC pages, mini-jobs and surveys. Also, I like technology and to have fun.What are your life goals?My goal is to apply my knowledge of technology to generate income that allows me to create economic independence to help my family. My goal is to travel the world.What is your job? What was it that led you to that?I work in a telecommunications company. I like technology, and study Telecommunications Engineering.Financially speaking, with what obstacles have you faced in the past?The biggest obstacle has been the inflation that my country faces because I have lost the value of my money on a frequent basis.What happened before that made you look for an alternative like AirTM?The loss of the value of the money that I work for with so much effort, did not allow me to save and when I wanted to acquire some material goods I could never reach its value because it always increased in price.How did AirTM help you make your experience with finance more friendly?It helped me because it allowed me to keep my savings in a currency that does not lose value. In addition to being able to exchange my $ in different wallets like PayPal and Uphold. Above all, it helped me to open up my possibilities for currency exchanges, something I had not known about.How do you use AirTM to improve your quality of life?I can acquire goods abroad, which is currently impossible in my country. I exchange currencies with friends in different countries and it gives me the possibilities of acquiring cryptocurrencies which helps to increase my savings.How much time and money have you saved now that you use AirTM?I have saved a lot of money and time. My savings do not lose value, but now increase in value, without leaving my house.What would you say to those people who are facing financial problems like the ones you went through?I would say to trust this page, to change your way of thinking, there are other alternatives for your finances to remain stable or increase in value. We must leave fear and bet on a better future.