
#OwnYourDataby Alanna GombertThe sea of change comes swiftly, sweeping over a landscape gouged with battle scars. The battlefield? The Internet. The weapon? Data.Internet users have long been blind to the activities of entities online that use their data for monetization and targeting. This practice in and of itself is not a “bad” thing, in moralistic terms. Rather, the fact that there is/was such a large opportunity to do so speaks to a climate ripe to create a robust data market. But like many businesses in the online space, these practices were opaque to the users being exploited. Strip mining without the earthly gashes. Hard to discern.The more recent events in the press surrounding Cambridge Analytica and also the Facebook data provided to a researcher seem to be waking the masses, particularly because in the aforementioned cases, the subsequent online targeting campaigns may or may not have affected high profile government elections and a decision for a European Nation to secede from EU treaties to go at it alone.These types of campaigns and influence making are not new. With politics comes the art of persuasion and campaigning, using all tools available. It is the human condition to want to win. A targeting campaign is currently a very effective tool in the quiver of victory.In this situation, the opacity of data and user interaction is brought to the forefront, however. Should targeting continue? Yes. Should users be allowed to take control of their own data, including the “dust” that is thrown off from online platforms that is so utterly valuable in bulk? Yes. This data should have user control, but corporations should be allowed to monetize and share those proceeds with said users. In the mining scenario, humans are the minerals and the individual “mines”, corporations are the aggregators, the miners and the exchanges. Data self sovereignty is a human right. Being deprived of information that is created from within without being compensated is now untenable.There are self sovereign data platforms being released into the blockchain ecosystem (SENSE, Sovrin, Evernym, Point 93 etc) and a myriad of initiatives focused on ownership of data as a human right, including within our own crypto/blockchain trade association, The Digital Asset Trade Association (DATA).One of my DATA co-founders, Brittany Kaiser, has been vocal about her work with Cambridge Analytica, work that included targeting digital campaigns, gaining data opt ins, all of the usual steps taken in any digital advertising campaign.This data should be governed by the people and proceeds gleaned should be shared. #OwnYourData is a campaign she has spearheaded. Get involved.It is a brave new world.