
ERC-20: 5 Use Cases for the Ethereum StandardEthereum is a cryptocurrency that popularized the idea of smart contracts. A smart contract is a way to securely transact without requiring a middle man by having software (code) automatically enforce the rules of the contract. This allows individuals to transact without relying on lawyers, notaries, or others.The Ethereum Foundation also released the ERC-20 standard, a technical standard that allows other tokens to run on the Ethereum blockchain. Following the ERC-20 standard, entrepreneurs can create their own token projects that can be traded directly with ETH.Here are 5 use cases for ERC-20.#1: BancorThe Bprotocol Foundation team has developed two interlinking ideas: the Bancor Network and Bancor Protocol.With the Bancor Network, the company allows any existing ERC-20 token to be traded in real-time with other ERC-20 tokens. Because all ERC-20 tokens have built-in smart contracts, Bancor can create a system where people can trade tokens without requiring extra work from developers or users.Their network generates revenue by having a small spread (e.g., keeping fractions of a penny in exchange for facilitating this exchange). There is no deposits or exchanges in between these transactions.The Bancor Protocol is another way to introduce token liquidity. By having a formula that balances buying and selling pressures, Bprotocol has created a way for any two tokens to trade — regardless of trade volume or which exchange they are listed on.#2: SaltThe Salt Platform enables participants to receive fiat loans secured by their crypto holdings. Unlike traditional loans, Salt allows individuals to get access to competitively-priced loans without the need for a credit check or waiting days for funds to arrive.The company is streamlining the lending world and looking to provide loans to the millions of people around the world who are underbanked or unbanked. In addition, Salt allows crypto enthusiasts to receive cash loans without needing to sell their crypto holdings.Holdings are kept in a safe, fully-audited vault under the entire loan is repaid.#3: CivicCivic has developed a state-of-the-art identity management platform. For individuals, Civic provides a convenient mobile app to store your information. This information can then selectively be shared with third-parties. For instance, you can share your driver’s license photo and age with a bar.Perhaps more importantly, the company has also developed a system to detect when your information is being used. By alerting the user and prompting them to confirm the use is valid, Civic hopes to dramatically cut the cases of identity fraud. According to a recent report, $16 billion dollars was stolen by more than 15 million American consumers in 2016 alone.Civic also has features specifically targeting businesses. By using Civic’s proprietary sign up and log in features, Civic enables businesses to be sure who is signing up for their service and also allows users to log in without having to remember credentials.#4: MonacoMonaco is another crypto service based on the ERC-20 standard.The team at Monaco has combined cutting edge tech with a physical debit card, that can be treated like a local card anywhere in the world. Monaco is looking to provide liquidity and a simple user experience to the world of global finance.Their products let you benefit from interbank exchange rates, which are far lower than what consumers typically receive, and buy cryptocurrencies at similarly attractive rates.#5: Basic Attention TokenThe Basic Attention Token, or BAT, is trying to revolutionize online advertising. Currently, the online ad industry relies on platforms run by massive companies, like Facebook and Google, selling consumer data to advertisers.BAT is trying to change this model by rewarding users for viewing and engaging with advertisements. On the other side, the platform hopes to only show relevant ads to users, which is better for both users and advertisers.By using cryptography, the Basic Attention Token hopes to realign the incentives of platforms, publishers, and users. It is a big ask but the concept was created by Brenden Eich, founder of JavaScript and co-founder of Mozilla.ConclusionThere are a variety of companies that have built on top of the ERC-20 standard to provide interesting products and services. Apex Token Fund has taken another novel approach. Apex has created the first crypto-focused fund-of-funds, that allows investors to receive access to the top crypto hedge funds in the world.In addition, it is the first tokenized fund, meaning that people can buy and sell the APEX ERC-20 token instantly to receive liquidity. ETH is currently the second largest cryptocurrency by market cap, and these tokens built on top of the ERC-20 standard provide a clear path for the popularity of Ethereum to grow with time.Learn More:Join our Telegram communityJoin our announcements channelFollow us on TwitterFollow our BlogLike us on FacebookJoin our Reddit community.Note: This post was originally published on the Apex onsite blog