
A BRIEF SUMMARY OF KINEKT TERMINALS WHITE PAPERBank card terminals were originally designed for the exclusive use of the banking industry and their related partners, products and services. This has resulted in functional limitations and cost factors that has (over time) severely fractured the market with more than one terminal required for purposes such as payment, loyalty programs and cryptocurrencies all competing for the same limited space available at the point of sale.However, the mass adoption of the internet and subsequent cloud based services such as SAAS, PAAS, IAAS and various new interface and radio related technologies have made it possible to re-imagine how physical Point of Sale Terminals could work. This presented us with the opportunity to design an entirely new generation terminal with related method & system that overcomes prior limitations whilst adding multiple new income stream options.Problem OverviewThe original design and development of bank card terminals were based on technologies of the time (1979), including the core intention to exclusively process digital card payments on behalf of baking industry participants. Ever since bank card terminals slowly evolved over time, becoming more established without considering that a new generation of terminals using technologies related to the internet and blockchain would become possible.The kinekt Terminal PrototypeSolution OverviewKINEKT solves the above and other current market related problems by way of a low cost Blockchain Integrated Terminal that is entirely Customer, Service & Technology Agnostic. KINEKT is a patent/s pending solution comprised of the following basic functional units; 1) the KINEKT Terminal, and 2) the KINEKT Cloud Platform/s which are connected to one another using a combination of centralized and blockchain networks.TOKEN MECHANISMOur token is called the KINEKT Token (XKN) and a maximum of 1 Billion tokens will be created. Out of these tokens up to 50% will be made available to the public during the initial coin offering (fundraising period), with the rest being held by the company. XKN Tokens are based on the ERC20 standard incorporating smart contracts within the Ethereum network.The official fundraiser will last for a period of 40 days, starting with a 10-day pre-sale flat rated discount period from 1 to 10 May 2018, followed by a 30-day public-sale period with diminishing discounts from 2 to 31 July 2018. Throughout the entire fundraiser period the KINEKT Token value will be fixed at 5,000 KINEKT Tokens = 1,000 US$ including a time dependent bonus. This bonus is meant to incentivize early adopters for their participation. During the pre-sale period the bonus will be a 30% flat rate calculated as follows, for example a 1,000 US$ contribution will yield an allocation of 5,000 XKN x (1,000 USD + 30%) = 6,500 XKN. During the public-sale period bonusses will start at 20% for the first 10 days, followed by 10% for the next 10 days, and 5% for the last 10 days. The maximum cap on contributions is 100,000 US$ and the minimum cap will be 1,000 US$ per investor.Investors wishing to buy more tokens can participate in the private sale and receive a 50% bonus. The minimum cap for private sales are 100,000 US$ and the maximum is 5,000,000 US$. Private sales will be available from 1 May to 31 July 2018.Note that token owners who hold on to their KINEKT Tokens for 12 months after the ICO ends, will receive an additional 50% KINEKT Tokens on top of their original purchase.KINEKT Blockchain (Hybrid Integration)The KINEKT solution makes use of a combination of centralized cloud and decentralized blockchain networks. The reason for this approach is to overcome the current latency issues related to blockchain technologies i.e. lack real-time transaction clearing and settlement — however this may change as new methods capable of handling real-time high volume blockchain transactions become feasible.KINEKT Touch Terminal (Transaction Flow Example)KINEKT WalletA KINEKT Wallet will be made available for use by XKN token holders and users of the KINEKT solution. The wallet will be a cloud based host for XKN tokens and traditional 3rd party / blockchain related service providers. The wallet will be available as a Smartphone app and / or Web based portal to access, manage and control the KINEKT Wallet related services, including API’s for 3rd party service providers to include KINEKT Wallet related services into their own wallet products etc.For more details kindly visit our official website :https://www.kinekt.technology/white paper link:https://www.dropbox.com/s/hludc0snmjerxiz/kinekt%2C%20ico%20white%20paper.pdf?dl=0