
MVLChain — Mass Vehicle Ledger EcosystemMVL is a new car-based car based ecosystem. Many manufacturers and services, people, automobiles, are different sectors, recording important data such as running, crashes, maintenance in a block chain and connecting it to one of the ecosystems. . All participants who contribute to the creation of the data and have a positive impact on the vehicle’s ecosystem will receive incentives.The Emblem Platform (MVL) consists of three main classes. The three layers are the corresponding core (chain-to-chain), service, component class, service layer application.The core layer (layer chain) The core layer is managed in the ecosystem Symbology (MVL ECO) Information about the automotive chain and distribution warehouse fence, information is generated in the life cycle of the vehicle information And cases, transactions and the like. Records of vehicle operation, accidents and maintenance are important information about vehicle life cycle management and play an important role in the process of selling used car, insurance handling, etc., that information is moved to the chain network It is necessary to store and there is no risk of modulation and loss of hands due to the failure of the central server.Services and component classes The services and component classes of Embru are windows where data such as transactions in the application service layer access the chain of services. Different services on the EMB platform are connected to the chain-only network through this service and the component class.Application Layer This is the layer where various services use vehicle data on the Emu Platform deployed. In this floor, various DApps were developed by individuals and companies involved in the Emblem (MVL) and Emblem (MVLECO) ecosystems. Various vehicle-related data, such as transactions, accidents, maintenance, etc., generated by the connected service will enter the chain-layer through the service layer and component.# Overview #Mvlchain is the ecosystem of the new car based on the automobile chain. Many manufacturers and services, people, automobiles, are different sectors, recording important data such as running, crashes, maintenance in a block chain and connecting it to one of the ecosystems. .Mvlchain’s goal is to connect car service with an ecosystem. Safe driving habits, bringing the value of good service quality, will give many benefits to the car data has been recorded in the chain. Emuburu ecosystem (MVL ECO), part of the life of the car, personal to record a mechanical part, dealer, a series of compensation system for the large number of participants, such as Driving (incentive) is provided, with ecosystems We encourage participation. Persistent treatment enthusiastically involved all participants in full compensation, the mechanism to apply a motor to record data accurately, M. Bull points in accordance with the contribution of the birth Crown (MVP) will be paid.# Benefit #Mvlchain’s idea looks very fresh and good. Various things such as buying used vehicles, Parte transaction records, car repair records, accident records, premium payment records, mileage records etc. are shared once. All records enter the chain until the car is born and dies. We suggest group membership parameters. mvlchain is a subsidiary easi 6. easi 6 is a company that provides car sharing services. Well-informed consultants Hashed, CEO of MediBlock and CAO.Mvlchain ranks the overall management of the vehicle’s full lifecycle and stores all information in the blocking chain. Buy and sell used cars, repair cars, scrap cars, insert all information. And the profile of the car user is also stored at the same time. Information about the driver’s driving directions, location information, service reviews, accident information, historical search information (such as Internet cookies), etc. are included. .Because the data entered here is money itself, the accident is sometimes sold, and the more users, the better the company and the penny is considered to be sold to the press of the company. Seminars on passive events share information about seminars and the like, and the insurance company does not seem to share well, putting the company into the ecosystem of the chain and inserting all into the coin If you have to make it to mvlchain trade is a sk skrapper or a big company The story on the Hanngo side will change, but in the opposite case, the partners and institutional investors will show up. Marketing them in the main. If you just build a partnership, you will see the potential.# Mission #- All car related services are connected by an ecosystem- We value safe driving and high quality service- Chain data has many advantages# Consider economic ecosystem model #In the future, Enburueko’s growth process (MVL ECO), the point system, is likely to be revised in relation to the incentive provisions, and the like. This is, at the block chain level, forge and prevent further strong, to implement ecosystems expect all participants to get a suitable incentive. For example, immediate cash points on this issue (in the costly phase of Enburu’s point that has been designed to be converted into electricity around a US dollar (MVP), so people resell may increase, Coin prices, such as the ecosystem of given possible) and a significant impact on stability, retirement participation in concepts such as corporate retirement from the ecosystem by a circle, introducing more concepts to implement the immediate reduction of a moment, the dishonest delegates point to point, the upper limit line of points, etc … can be considered. In addition, in the technical aspects of order to handle a large number of auto-related data quickly, the possibility of the birth of the master nod or side chain, democratic decision through a vote on major changes in the commodities of ecosystems Different institutional devices to promote the interests of the participants and the development of the ecosystem can understand. Such considerations, in order to determine through hearings on the user’s point of view during the testing phase of the original model, the full-fledged Enburu ecosystem chain system that was further improved Comply with the implementation time guidelines (MVL ECO) Provided.# Team ## ICO: #Name of the token: MVLRelease Price: 1 ETH = 240,000 MVLTotal problem: 300 millionPlatform: ERC-20Maintaining products: Under developmentList schedule: definedHard cover: 36000 ETHCountry: Singapore# Reference Info #Website: 엠블체인 | MVLchainOfficial report: https://mvlchain.io/papers/mvl_white_paper_en.pdf?t=6Telegram: MVLchain_EN# My bitcointalk URL : View the profile of phuocth.tp