
Who am I ? Who are we ?Who am I ?Hello everyone, my name's Emre. I'm the owner of the idea behind the project named Academia Lingu. I was born in 1992, married and have a cat named Asu.I'm an English Teacher and I've been teaching since 2014. I've worked with young learners, adults, teenagers and I've learnt so many different things from every one of them.Being an English Teacher had been my dream since I was a kid. English was something I loved using and being exposed to. I guess I was a bit succesful at it as well. However, my family was against my dream of being an English Teacher but somehow I managed to convince them and became one.Anyway, I started my teaching career in a language school in Istanbul when I was in my last year at university. Then, I went on with another language school and after that a private school. At the moment I'm teaching in a private secondary school. I love what I do, not because I teach but I guide my students in their life.Who are WE ?While I was teaching in one of those Language Schools. I had a student, a web developer. I really got on well with him. Then we became friends but we weren't "just" friends, we were like a brother to each other. When I got the idea of Academia Lingu, I invited him to my house and shared the idea and he agreed and believed in the project. Aaand we started it, we invited two of our friends too, another developer and another teacher.Now we are 4 people with the support of our friends and family, working hard on this project. We have goals, big goals and we have the will. We are aware of that this path is rough. With the bad people controlling the crypto markets, trust problem that people have and big manipulation power that money has it becomes rougher. But we had a decision at the start of this project. No matter what, we won't give up until we reach our goals.We have the faith on each other.We believe that thanks to this project our contribution to humanity won't be limited only for the area we live in. It will be so much more and I'm sure we will experience that we make people's lives easier worldwide.