
NeoNexchange project promises to be a breakthrough in the crypto exchanges field and bring profit to its investorsThe first professional digital rating agency DigRate has assigned A2 investment attractiveness score to NeoNexchange — medium-to-high probability of long-term investment return, the level of project development potential is above average. NeoNexchange is a decentralized exchange platform of a new generation created to solve two problems: ensuring the security of centralized exchanges and the slow processing speed of decentralized exchanges.ICO: 15.04.2018The Neon Exchange (NEX) project team is working to create an exchange platform that combines the advantages of centralized and decentralized systems, in particular, the combination of blockchain security and the speed of centralized platforms. The system consists of three main components: an off-chain trade matching engine, a smart contract where trades are executed, and a payment service where global assets such as NEO and GAS can be converted to tokens that can be transferred directly by smart contracts, making them compatible with the exchange.First of all, NeoNexchange is an exchange, the main distinguishing feature of which will be the Off-Chain Matching Engine (search and closing of the purchase / sale operations into the finished transaction). The search for orders to close the transaction will be made outside ofthe blockchain, that will significantly speed up the throughput (NeoNexchange is potentiallyable to process and execute more than 100,000 trades per second). There also will be ability to execute various orders, such as limit and market orders. The final exchange transaction will be processed in the blockchain.The NeoNexchange payment system converts global assets, such as NEO and GAS, into a token of assets. When user inputs the NEO cryptocurrency into the payment system, an equivalent amount of XNEO will be created, that can be sent and received through smart contracts using the NEP-5 standard. Conversely, when the user withdraws NEO from the payment system, the XNEO balance will be adjusted accordingly. It is assumed that the payment service will support the assets of other blockchains in the future and, possibly, not even digital assets, such as US dollars.Another feature of NEX will be a new, user-friendly smart wallet for storing currencies having the instant trading functionality. The project developers have already submitted an alpha version of the NEX Google Chrome extension, providing fast and convenient coordination between NeoNexchange, decentralized apps and websites, and third-party vendors / buyers. This extension will also be necessary to purchase NEX tokens during the ICO.The smart contract code for token sale, the protocol and the platform smart contract are published on GitHub and their active development is underway. However, the project team does not present the results of an independent safety audit of the smart contract used during the crowdsale.The project team has analyzed the competitive environment and presented a clear roadmap. All the pros and cons of traditional centralized exchanges and decentralized projects were taken into account when designing the platform. Neonexchange will compete with all other decentralized exchanges, that are likely to accumulate a significant part of the trading volume by that time.There is no legal information on the project on the official resources, including the main package of legal documents required for the ICO, there is no information on the regulation of the funds dispersal. Only a small paragraph of the whitepaper is devoted to the legal side. DigRate analysts believe that a poor study of the legal aspect can become a serious drawback of the project.The NEX token is positioned as a security token, it will partially go into free sale and will give its holders the right to earn part of project’s revenue in the future, that makes it a security analogue. There is also no information about the licenses obtained for the legal sale of the NEX token. This causes the greatest concern. Еhe project team will face bureaucratic difficulties associated with the legalization of NEX as a security. In the light of constantly changing rules regarding cryptocurrencies, registration of a token as a security will be impossible in many countries and remains in question in a number of other countries. Positioning NEX as a security token will also make it difficult to list token on other exchanges. Unfortunately, the project does not disclose preventive measures to avoid problems with ICO market regulators.The team composition is not balanced enough, according to DigRate analysts. It is dominated by tech specialists and developers with extensive experience, but there are almost no promotion specialists. It is necessary to attract specialists from the field of finance and jurisprudence. This is compensated partially due to competent in the field of management and finance advisers.The NeoNexchange project is popular on media resources. The main information flow from the team goes through the Twitter with more than 50 thousand subscribers. The project team notes that they are actively developing the product at the moment and do not want to be distracted by the opening of new channels, in addition to those that already exist. Meanwhile, DigRate analysts note the low speed and quality of the project team’s feedback.DigRate experts believe, that the project is one of the most anticipated in the crypto industry as decentralized exchange that supports NEP5 tokens is necessary for the further development of the market. If the project team succeeds in timely settling all legal issues and NEX will be recognized as a security legally, then plans of the team can be successfully implemented, and NeoNexchange will present a completely new standard of exchanges and the first of its kind decentralized exchange with a performance comparable to modern centralized exchanges.A full report with an investment evaluation can be found on the official website: www.digrate.comFollow us on Telegram, Twitter, and Facebook!