
ExTrade Weekly Update2018/5/4Hello everyone,It’s weekend again and there has been a bullish move in the crypto market recently, including Bitcoin and altcoins. However, there are also a lot of noise out there.INDUSTRY REVIEWPeople used to question the value of blockchain, the creation of cryptocurrencies, and now, the way how they connect to the real world where we consume, work, live our life every single day. It has been massively accepted that blockchain is an innovation, but still, not many real applications available for users currently.It raises the question that how we can adopt and apply the cryptocurrencies in real life scenario.The CTO of Reddit stated they may reopen the crypto payment gateway for consumers in their platform soon, as previously the Bitcoin payment was halted by Reddit due to “high fees” and time consuming API integration with Coinbase. And they also consider bringing in Ethereum and Litecoin payment this time. (Source: Cointelegraph)There are fairy tales and unicorns in the marketplace, along with scams and bubbles. Some cryptos built on the public chain, such as Bitcoin, are deemed as irreplaceable with unique symbolic meaning to believers, as well as Ethereum, and even EOS, which attracts most of the attentions in the market because of the heat of supernode campaign. These concepts, feel like starting from beliefs on the moon, while moving forward by landing on the ground.Liquidity and ease of use could be the few important factors affecting the level of public acceptance of a specific crypto. It could be one of the reasons that Ethereum jumped to be the second largest cryptocurrency in the world according to market capitalisation. In other words, people may begin asking questions on how will they change our lives for the better? How do crypto related projects cooperate with financial institutions and traditional industries? Would consumers be happy to pay by cryptos and how easy would that be?While on the infrastructure side, creating a whole new blockchain seems to be attracting most interests.There are always different voices, of course. Bloomberg, noted that cryptocurrencies are too volatile to be useful for payment in stores or salaries. And they also doubted the future performance of cryptocurrencies, in general, to be comparable to traditional investment in the financial market. Because apparently, the latter market is well-regulated and mature comparing to former one so it seen to be more stable. (Source: Cointelegraph) In the opposite, some are convinced that in 2018, cryptos will rise as “an asset class” and will attracts investments from institutional clients. (Source:Cointelegraph)Well, both traditional financial products and crypto products have pros and cons. The point is that they can co-exist and improve the diversification in the market place, which is definitely something good for investors. The difference here could be that traditional currencies are for value carrying and preserving. Digital currencies, to some extent, carry an instinct of investment beyond value storage due to market fluctuation. It is interesting and there are more to discuss.Anyway, the good news is that we are definitely in the right industry, a shining star, so as ExTrade. Now let’s talk a bit about us.EXTRADE Q&A SESSIONWe did the first Q&A in 2018/4/19 and we found that quite a lot friends like it. So this time, we are doing the same with more questions gathered from our community.Terry is and will always be the most important guest for this session. :)Q: What is the vesting schedule for the team?EXTRA held by the founding team are locked for three years with 25% released each year as addressed in the white paper.Q: How do we use EXTRA token?EXTRA can be used to purchase services provided on ExTrade platform. These services include but not limited to discounts for certain fees such as transaction fees, entry and exit fees, etc. Also, it can be used for special fund selections and purchasing other added value services on platform such as trading strategy subscription. We will, of course, continuously trying to add values to EXTRA.Q: What are the backgrounds of fund managers on ExTrade?At the early stage, most of fund managers are professional traders and teams. Investors can access their profiles on ExTrade once we launch. However, in the future, we would like to involve everyone without looking into background exclusively. We empower investors to make their investment decisions, as it is believed that a free market will select the best — “survival of the fittest ”.Happy to talk to you all and see you next week. Enjoy your weekend!Join the ExTrade Community:Facebook/Twitter/Telegram/Website