
Teamwork is what makes great companiesIn our last post we presented the founders of the first e-boutique for Made in Italy luxuries, professionals with experiences in the international market.Dedicating themselves to this innovative blockchain based project, they make sure that the team is in a position to work together as a cohensive unit towards the growth of the company, helping to create a structure and articulate the vision.A vision in which new technologies and payment systems create new job opportunities and allow the economy to grow. A vision of an ecosystem where counterfeiting has no chance.Now more than ever, collaboration has become the keystone of successful businesses.A strong team are the foundation of high-performing business and stronger relationships between team members, energized employees and a more engaged workforce are just a few of the benefits.The accumulation of good talent is what produces great team results, which is why we want to introduce more important RockerChain team members to you.ADVISORPierluigi di PaloFinancial and tax advisor with 25 years of experience in structured finance and international taxes. Previously Executive Director at Royal Bank of Scotland, ABN ABRO and Principal in PWC tax. He used to be Statutory Auditor of ahoo! Italia, ABN AMRO Corporate FInance, Lehman Brothers Int. DIM, Aedes and more.Claudio ValerioProject Manager and Senior Business Consultant at Richemont, one of the biggest luxury players in the world, with 10 years of experience in IT, logistics and luxury goods. Previously Executive positions in Accenture Management Consulting.Andrea ConteTechnology entrepreneur, who served as VP and CEO for important companies in the telecommunications as well as aerospace and defence industries. Furthermore, he founded several tech companies focussing on CRM, chat based customer care, utility and broadband services.Alessio BrunettiSenior Advisor in financial services and luxury real estate with more than 20 years of experience in various positions. Previously Senior Executive at AXA, Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Bain & Co.Antonio AsseretoFounder of FocusFuturo and ProximityCapital, with over 15 years of experience in venture and corporate investment, focussing on start-ups. Previously in prestigious positions at Gruppo CIR, Bain & Co, Accenture.INVESTORKarim El SaketFounder and CEO of Dalani.it, first vertival portal in Italy, founded in 2011 dedicated to the sale of home accessorie sas well as unique and exclusive furniture. Previously Karim has been Managing Diretor Italy of the hospitality start-up Wimdu and managed investor relations for the digital platform Rocket Internet.These forces combined build the perfect basis for pursuing our overall goal and delivering our mission: promoting Italy’s excellencies of the food, fashion and design industry, developing export and bringing protection to digital shopping.Follow our pogress on our official Telegram Channel as well as Facebook and Instagram and win exciting prizes by participating in our contest! Find out more on https://rockercoin.io