
Review of ICO ShivomHello, dear subscribers! Today I want to carry out the review of one more very interesting and perspective project which sale of tokens takes place now and passes very successfully. We will speak about the Shivom project.It would be desirable to begin the review of the project with his definition.Shivom. Shivom is the project which purpose consists in use of securitization (protection) of data in blockchain technology which result has to be a creation of a new era of genomics. The platform of health care will allow to use a genomic ecosystem in which users will have the open web market for analytics of genomic data and applications for medical services and also the personalized medicine. The Shivom project is focused on transformational convergence of OMICS technologies with blockchain technology, artificial intelligence and machine learning to provide the safe and personalized medicine with global scalability.Summarizing the aforesaid, there is a wish to simplify definition of the Shivom project a little. Shivom — the platform of health care using blockchain technology for creation of a new era of genomics.The idea of the project seems very interesting and perspective. Besides the idea of the project is unique so there are no similar projects realizing the same idea anywhere in the world. Therefore before the Shivom project all opportunities for development and achievement of success are open.ICO. At the time of writing of article I have come to an end of Pre-Sale Shivom as a result of which $33.10 million have been collected. It is just magnificent indicator considering that it was only Pre Sale and the basic of ICO hasn’t begun yet. The token of Shivom has OMX symbol. 1 ETH = 7000 OMX. Soft Cap of the project makes $ dollars 15 million, Hard Cap of $ dollar 35 million. Considering what on Pre Sale has been sold out tokens for $ dollars 33.10 million, it is possible to tell with confidence that Hard Cap of the project will be successfully built. Therefore I advise all to invest in the Shivom project as soon as possible, there can be a shortage of tokens!Team. The team of the Shivom project is made of true professionals who are ready to make Shivom one of the most known and successful projects about which they will speak around the world. The team of the project is rather extensive, it includes several dozens of people who are true professionals of the business. About each of members of the team you can read in more detail on the project website. It should be noted that each of members of the team of Shivom has a profile on social network LinkedIn that allows you to get acquainted with each of them in more detail.Advisors. Besides team of the project, it is also necessary to mark out and advisers who are connected with the Shivom project. Each of advisers has extensive experience and respect in the world market that gives huge confidence that the Shivom project will really achieve the wished success and realizes all the ideas. With such team of advisers the project definitely can have no problems!Road map. The road map of the Shivom project is quite extensive and far-sighted. The first mention of the Shivom project has appeared in the first quarter 2017 when the concept of the project has been developed. In total the road map is painted before the first quarter 2019 when full start of AL Platform is planned.Result. Summing up the result, there is a wish to tell that the idea of the project very much was pleasant to me. The idea is unique, there are no analogs the Shivom project any. From it investments into the Shivom project become even more attractive. But as it was already told earlier, with investments into the project it is worth hurrying as investors with big enthusiasm invest in the Shivom project and at the moment all tokens are sold already almost out. It is unambiguously necessary to invest in the project, it is waited by undoubted success and world recognition. My assessment to the project — 5.0/5.0.The official site — https://shivom.io/ANN THREAD — https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3204563.0Bounty — https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3183600.0White Paper — https://shivom.io/files/Shivom-Executive-Summary.pdfTELEGRAM — https://t.me/projshivomTwitter — https://twitter.com/projectshivomFacebook — https://www.facebook.com/ProjectShivomAuthorAnomaBITCOINTALK PROFILEhttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1682383