
Bulltoken ICO VS ICO PoolsIn 2017 over 200 ICOs reportedly achieved over $3billion investment. Many of these ICOs saw investments made via ICO Pools and a high number of these were found to be scam associated. ICO Pools are made up of a collective group of investors (generally anonymous to each other) who send money to an ICO Pool leader. The leader is then responsible for investing in ICOs on behalf of the group.The benefits of using an ICO Pool in theory, is that it saves investors time to research ICOs themselves and in some cases invest in ICOs they wouldn’t normally be aware of.In 2017 a high number of these pools were found to be scam associated or had invested in ICOs which were later found to be scams. In other scenarios investors after sending their money found the pool itself had taken their investment and vanished. In both of these situations investors were left out of pocket and unable the pool leaders were no longer contactable.Bulltoken has identified the risks associated with traditional ICO Pooling and created a transparent platform where all members are aware of which ICOs are being invested in.As an investor into ICO Pools myself and also a victim of scam associated pools, I have outlined some of my core concerns below and compared them against how I feel Bulltoken may be able to help.TrustThe single factor which makes an ICO Pool an attractive method of investing in a company is based upon the trust an investor makes when they contribute to a pool. The trust is based on the proviso that the ICO Pool leaders will be reviewing 100s of ICOs at any one time and examining these to ensure they are the best ICOs to invest in (which will make the highest returns).The reality however is that in most cases ICO Pools are run by either a single or a handful of people who may be in receipt of multiple contributions. The credentials of the ICO Pool leaders are rarely made available therefor the phrase “blind investing” has been associated with investors who have chosen to use ICO Pools. This can lead to investors feeling disconnected from ICO Pools.The problem with using ICO Pools I have found is there is rarely any dialog between the pool investors and the Pool owners/leaders themselves. Generally speaking the only conversations which may take place between an investor and the Pool Owners themselves is: the confirmation they have received your contribution, the ICO which has been invested in and finally the outcome of the investment. In most cases this communication can happen over a few months.This lack of dialog can make it difficult encourage investors to trust the pool owners especially in a sensitive environment where ICO Pools are becoming less trusted due to the rise in ICO Scams and government intervention.Bulltoken has identified the distrust investors are having with ICO Pool owners and have adopted a transparent communication approach where investors and members of the platform can communicate with each other and democratically vote on which ICOs to invest in.Unlike ICO Pools, Bulltoken doesn’t have a single leader who makes decisions on behalf of investors. Instead they allow for complete transparency of communication between members and everyone has a chance to contribute to ICO Analysis which promotes engagement on the platform. Users are also able to vote for which ICOs they would like to invest in which reinforces the idea that Bulltoken serves in the best interest of its community members.Bulltoken has been able to gain trust from its members In two core ways. Firstly they encourage communication between everyone on the platform. This enables investors and community members to be more engaged on the platform compared to being in a traditional ICO Pool. Bulltoken also provides community members the chance to be involved in important decisions which reduces investor disconnect.BullToken also offers community members to see the credibility of other community members by introducing badges. These badges showcase how involved someone is with the BullToken community and provides users with information such as: Which users have submitted ICO proposals, how active a user is on Bulltoken and finally the platform allows users to see which community members have had their ICOs approved. This all helps to build trust on the platform.RegulationICO Pools have also come under scrutiny due to their lack of regulation and transparency. From the viewpoint of a stakeholder who has invested in an ICO Pool you have no awareness of how other pool members are investing or their sources of investment. This has led to many investors becoming victims of fraud or indirectly being linked with money laundering investigations from governments. This has led to governments being forced to regulate the funding sources of ICOs and track investor transactions which has enforced some ICOs to cease training.An example of a fraudulent ICO which highlighted the importance of ICO regulation was the “Munchee Inc” ICO which raised over $32 million in 2017.The American Government scrutinised its sourcing methods and found discrepancies in credible sourcing channels. The outcome of this to anyone who had invested in Munchee Inc or any ICO founded to be linked with Money Laundering was that they lost their money.Legal implications have made it difficult to trust ICO Pools due to the lack of transparency.To ensure full transparency for both investors and to comply with growing international government regulations, Bulltoken has implemented the “Know your Customer” (KYC). This is where each community member is verified as a real person prior to them existing on the Bulltoken platform. Therefore it minimises the risk of Robots or other malicious groups taking over the platform and reduces the risk of fraudulent activities.This is a key benefit to investors using the BullToken platform as it ensures community members that are investing in (as part of the investment pool) are credible and not linked to criminal activities. Ultimately this added security feature from Bulltoken ensures that the platform is a lot safer for investors and legally protected against any government regulatory checks.In the example above of Munchee Inc, it would be safe to think the Bulltoken community members would have identified the potential for the company to be scam associated early on as part of the community due diligence process.Bulltoken also has an internal regulatory body known as the Investment Advisory Board (IAB) who act as an representative body who insures investments are subject to strict screening processes.Reduced riskWhen investing in an ICO Pool I am investing in the belief that the Pool leaders are going to invest my money into a project of their own choosing by doing their own strict due diligence. All too often however I have found that ICO Pools have invested in projects which I felt didn’t comply with my own ICO Screening standards. Ultimately I have been left out of pocket due to bad investments.ICO Pools tend to focus on using the investment of its users in one ICO at a time. The reason for this is because they don’t tend to attract enough investment to spread the risk across other ICOs or other safer types of investment. This can make ICO Pools a high risk investment strategy for investors as they are essentially “putting their eggs into one basket” with the hope that the investment pays out.As most ICO Pools tend to invest in the pre sale part of an ICO it can take investors a long time to see if their investment has been accepted. In some cases if the invested company was unable to meet its financial targets, investors can lose their money.BullToken has a different approach which has been designed to minimise and spread risk across multiple platforms. The core focus of BullToken is to minimise risk for its community members and spread the investment risk across different platforms to promote a safer investment strategy.They also offer contingency style of investing via tried and tested means in cases where their initial investment is facing a bearish trend. These include investing in commodes or similar traditional industries.Finally Bulltoken also offers non automated exit strategies which are community led to ensure the reduction in any potential losses. After all no one can predict market movements.As an investor this, Bulltoken seems to offer a much more attractive method of investing due to the safety nets BullToken has put in place. As an investor it will allow me to both diversify my investment portfolio and offer security in the event of any market changes.Bulltoken has identified the dangers of investing in ICO Pools and created a platform which is driven on minimising the risks to its investors. They have introduced the concept of community driven decisions within a transparent environment, something not traditionally seen in ICO Pools. Not only does this enhance trust in the platform it also encourages a platform where further discussion on investments can be held.As government interest increases in funding sources for ICOs, Bulltoken has placed itself ahead of the game by ensuring relevant vetting checks on its users are done prior to users being allowed to use the Bulltoken platform.What are your thoughts on traditional ICO Pools, and which other benefits do you think Bulltoken can offer against traditional ICO Pool investing?For more information about Bulltoken please visit the following websites or join the official Telegram group (link below)Website: https://bulltoken.tech/Telegram: https://t.me/BullToken_OFFICIALDiscord: https://discordapp.com/invite/bt7J7srTwitter: https://twitter.com/BullToken