
Three Free(ish) Tools every Community Manager Should HaveIf you’re hiring a community manager for your cryptocurrency startup you probably already expect your candidates to be familiar with and quite-savvy with services like Telegram, Discord, Slack, Reddit and Twitter. These communication services and social media sites are almost becoming defaults for job ads in the crypto community management niche. But could your community managers be doing more and bringing more value than just answering FAQs in the #general channel? More importantly, how do you stay on top of the seeming flood of requests, pings, IMs and emails efficiently as a CM?Here are three tools that every crypto-community manager should consider adding to his or her arsenal.1. Trello — Quickly create roadmaps, goals and projects for community managers.Trello is a tool that should be familiar to anyone exposed to the Kanban management system. But for community managers, the card based management scheme provides an excellent and visibly-efficient manner of tracking measurable goals against actions taken in managing your online communities. If your community managers are also responsible for content creation and publication, Trello is a great resource for scheduling and planning new blog posts.With the recent acquisition by Atlassian, community managers can now create JIRA tickets directly from their cards using the JIRA Power-up. This allows your community managers to quickly promote cards relevant to customer complaints or issues directly to engineering teams and quickly get back to the front lines.Cost: Free, with Premium Plans Available2. Streak — The CRM for Gmail, service your customers, visually track progress, stay in touch.We at Branch Co. have been long-time fans of Streak, a CRM that works as a Google Chrome add-on and completely revolutionizes the inbox experience.The beauty in Streak CRM is not just how tightly-woven into the Gmail experience it is, but rather how flexible of a tool it is. The ability to create and configure multiple “pipelines” to serve up as much, or as little tabular data about each “bucket” (think of buckets as individual ‘leads’ in a traditional sales pipeline) means Streak can be used as a CRM for token sales, as a ticketing system for community managers performing customer support, an Applicant Tracking System for community managers who might be recruiting advocates and social media influencers, or all three! This is an incredible, invaluable tool that not only compliments your inbound email support, but enhances it with features like delayed sending, email recalling, template responses, and automated follow ups.Cost: Free, with Premium Plans Available3. Hootsuite or Sprout Social — Schedule your media, improve post quality.While there’s certainly nothing stopping any community manager from simply creating accounts on Twitter, Facebook, Reddit etc. and posting updates, ad-hoc, your community is better served with cohesive messaging across multiple platforms. HootSuite and SproutSocial lead the way in features and services that make managing your social communities incredibly easy. Our personal favorite though is post scheduling.Whereas Trello can be used to plan and build strategies as a team, HootSuite and SproutSocial go a step further and allow you to schedule posts across your entire portfolio of social media accounts as you surf the web. Find an incredible article about how Blockchain is revolutionizing agriculture and think it would make a great share? With HootSuite you can schedule when the post goes out, giving your community managers time to work with marketing and create the perfect caption for your retweet or repost before it goes out with an embarrassing typo or misattribution.Cost: Free with UpgradesAs we’ve shown, being a community manager can involve more than simply replying to a support email-but having and efficiently using tools to stay productive and document your goals gives your community managers more tools to thrive productively. These aren’t by any means the only resources you can use to accomplish this, and create value as a community manager-these are our favorites. What are yours? Leave a comment below and tell us how you’ve been most productive as a community manager, maybe someone will find your suggestions helpful!