
Why banking isn’t in our future.Banks are all betting that they will be the torchbearers to manage all of your financial needs. The problem is that while people are trying to make banking better, the solution won’t be to make a better bank… it’s will be to make a different technology that fundamentally solves the problems people are experiencing.The way people imagine technology of the future is heavily biased by their current experiences and expectations.— Ines MontaniThe picture below shows what people did before alarm clocks. They hired a “knocker-upper” to tap on their window with a stick every morning.The eventual solution to the question, “How do we make a better knocker-upper” was not to make a robot that knocks on people’s windows. The solution was the alarm clock. Something completely different that was eventually replaced by something even more radical: the smartphone.This is what banks are all doing wrong. They’re still asking the question of, “How do we make a better bank?” When they should be asking… “How do we reduce the friction of people’s finances?”We aren’t yet addressing people’s real financial needs. We’re still working with an old mental model.You trust a bank to keep your money safe. You trust technology to companies make magic happen. Who wants to log into their bank account? You want to log into Mint or Clarity.One experience problem happening right now is that to manage your money, you effectively need to manage a huge amount of account logins:Checking accountCredit card 1Credit card 2Rent / mortgage loginHome insurance loginCar insurance loginRetirement account(s)Investment account(s)A ton of maintenance is required to remember and maintain the connections of all those logins together. Banks aren’t making this easier.As a bank, spreading your resources thin on replicating the functionality of existing, successful apps that span all of the above categories is way too far of a stretch. The source of the money is only one tiny component in a larger financial ecosystem and banks won’t be able to spin up the design and tech talent fast enough to conquer and out-iterate the Silicon Valley powerhouses and start-ups that have corralled that talent. Ex: Betterment, Acorns, PayPal, etc.The exact solution isn’t clear, but banks do need to try another approach. Keep trying to replicate Mint and Clarity and they’ll risk squandering their resources while tech-first companies get FDIC approved, effortlessly spin up checking accounts, and put them out of business.