
Kenyan ICT Sector set to embrace Distributed Ledger TechnologyAfrican governments are notably too slow to adopt any state-of-the art systems and thus end up lagging behind the private sector. While a majority of government officials use devices such as smartphones and tablets, mobile apps, online services, video-conferencing and other systems in their personal work, a slim majority push for the use of the same systems have improve their works productivity and help them serve more citizens. For how much longer are we going to lag behind?In August 10, 2017, i wrote an article on the possiblity of using blockchain to support a transparent democratic voting process. (Just seen a new implementation of a secure, scalable, and reliable blockchain voting platform — SecureVote. This one looks pretty solid). My conclusion was a wake up call to the ICT fraternity to expore and embrace the power that this new technologies bring to solve our day to day problems.Not just in voting….Procurement, Healthcare name them…For instance, tender contracting has been a thorn in the flesh for all procurement offices across the country — the Ethereum Blockchain Project has a solution to this — SMART CONTRACTS.What are Smart Contracts?Smart contracts help you exchange money, property, shares, or anything of value in a transparent, conflict-free way while avoiding the services of a middleman.Healthcare has so much to benefit from blockchain too. Qouting from their official website, “Medicalchain uses blockchain technology to securely store health records and maintain a single version of the truth. The different organisations such as doctors, hospitals, laboratories, pharmacists and health insurers can request permission to access a patient’s record to serve their purpose and record transactions on the distributed ledger”. This can also potentially solve the mismanagement of funds we see in the county levels on healthcare management.Things taking shape now…Fast forward into 2018, the Kenyan goverment led by the Information Cabinet secretary Joe Mucheru, appointed Dr Bitange Ndemo as the chairman of a government taskforce that will explore the use of distributed ledger technology and artificial intelligence for development in Kenya. The move is expected to create jobs and spur Kenya’s manufacturing sector from nine to 15 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product. The 11 member team on Distributed Ledgers and Artificial Intelligence will recommend various technologies for use in solving Kenya’s intermediate problems.Kenyans are already into it…As Kenyans gamble millions in high risk Bitcoin trading craze, pay dowry or even carry out tradind on online digital blockchain trading platforms, it clearly shows how read they are to embrace new technology. A few other with deeper understanding an technical expertise have set up mining systems, surely we can’t lack expertise on how to implement a block chain system. Again, looking back at Innovation Summit Africa which took place on March 6th 2018, we undoubtedly have the potential. Its time for all african governments to improve on infrastructure, train their workforces, modernise regulations and ensure inclusive growth, to create a better chance to get new technologies to thrive.Digital DriversEven though i did not attend #DigitalAfrica2018, i believe that just as the theme — Digital Drivers; Enabling the Growth of Africa’s Digital Economy — blockchain is a viable solid Digital Driver worth to take on. Borrowing a leaf from the the Afro-futurist blockbuster movie — Black Panther — that takes place in Wakanda Kingdom, where lots of exciting technologies are featured, there were some clear connections between the fantasies of “Black Panther” and actual innovation happening in the real world today.Lets get rolling…Yes, it has take time for the country’s ICT sector to realize that technology can solve our problems, but i am elated by the brilliant move. Gear on guys, lets get rolling team. I also call on experts or anyone who has interest on blockchain like i to, to join the band. Share your ideas and let us, together, define a new vision for how software can empower governments to realize their full potential.