
Apollon Coin: One Masternode to Rule Them AllI’ve written before about how I believe Proof of Stake (PoS) and Masternodes (MNs) are the future of cryptocurrency. Between the massive start up costs for mining in the form of equipment and the cost of resources to run said equipment, mass adoption would create a huge drain on our infrastructure if we stick with Proof of Work (PoW). In the adoption life cycle, MNs are the bridge over The Chasm that leads to the mass acceptance of cryptocurrency.I want to be clear, I truly believe we are right there, at The Chasm. Cryptocurrency has been in existence for less than a decade and is still very much in its infancy. As technology progresses, digital currency will take hold. Public policy has yet to keep up with technological innovations and I don’t see that changing in the near future.Enter into the game Apollon Coin (XAP). A masternode coin created for one purpose: passive income. XAP is promoted as a straightforward, honest cryptocurrency. Usually we see a currency try to convince investors to buy in through some reason, or use case, to justify its existence. XAP doesn’t bother. This is crypto and we’re all here to make money.And that is exactly what XAP has been doing since its Genesis Block. As of this writing, it’s been 61 days since the first block. So what does the team behind this project have to show for it in such a short period of time?Over 1,500 active masternodes, available on at least four exchanges, and a market capitalization of $10.6 million USD.If you have been following the project, you’re probably not that surprised. It’s lead by a transparent team, starting with the face of the project, Chad Sichello. Currently the Managing Director of Apollon Coin, Sichello has a strong pedigree in the digital space. He is pulling double duty right now as he is also the CEO of Dojo Card; a company created to educate younger generations on responsible spending in the digital age.Sichello is very active on Youtube and in the XAP Discord Server. He is playfully razzed for the setting of his videos, which appears to be his rather nondescript bedroom at home. Some see it as a red flag; a lack of production value. But there is real value in the choice to keep things simple. It’s welcoming and familiar; a weirdly intimate approach that results in the feeling that he’s being honest with the viewer.Currently, XAP is around $0.20 USD. With a max supply of 250 million coins and 66% of the current supply locked up in MNs, there is significant room for the value of XAP to increase. Conservatively, I wouldn’t be surprised to see XAP to reach $1 by this summer and $2 by the end of the year.Even a $2 valuation, with a projected supply of 200 million coins, would give it a market cap of only $400 million USD. Doable, seeing how that is still not a Top 50 coin in the cryptocurrency space.My favorite thing about XAP is that it is marketed as an opportunity for anyone to set up their very own masternode. That has been my biggest complaint about masternodes thus far. It is virtually inaccessible for the novice crypto investor. The process is complicated, requires a Virtual Private Server (VPS), and you have to have at least a basic understanding of computer coding.Apollon Coin aims to give the layman investor a better shot at joining in on the fun of MNs. Sichello himself has over a dozen videos on his Youtube addressing different aspects of setting up your XAP MN. The content on the website is even more plentiful for those pesky hiccups that we non-tech people inevitably run into.All of this is happening just in time. Crypto winter ended at the beginning of April, presenting a prime opportunity for a new platform to enter the market.Wait, what is crypto winter? That’s the phrase I came up with to describe the months December/January through March/April. I’m claiming a poor man’s copyright by using it here.It’s the time of year when more money is flowing out of, instead of into, the crypto market. Christmas, Gregorian New Year, Chinese New Year; it’s that time during our revolution around the sun where everyone buys presents, goes on vacation, and spends very little time thinking about investments.Now that time is over and in the past three weeks close to $150 billion have flowed back into the cryptocurrency market. $10 million of that has found its way to XAP, the next big masternode opportunity for investors. I am certain more will follow.No distractions, no gimmicks; just a well-built chance for everyone to make a little passive income.Apollon Coin Website: https://apollon.one/ XAP Discord Server: https://discord.gg/gtCRUcm