
XY ORACLE NETWORK SURE WAY TO TRACK YOUR DEVICESProof of location using tracking devices have been in place for so many years now. At some point many of these devices have problems with accuracy of locations and uncertainty being associated with so many of these devices. Many of these proofs in location services have been using triangularization and GPS services which have failed in addressing the most critical component we face today in location technologies. There have been therefore a need in coming up with a difficult-to-disrupt system to complement the GPS which has been in place for years, though the GPS has been very accurate yet jamming, spoofing, cyber-attacks and others forms of crimes are on the increase daily having effects on our lives and economic activity.You can now take a deep sigh as XY Oracle has come with a trustless, decentralized system of location that is resistant to attack and produces the highest certainty possible when queried for available data using XY’s Bluetooth and GPS devices which allow everyday consumers to place physical tracking beacons on the things they want to keep track of such as keys, cars, luggage, bikes and even pets. If they misplace or lose such an item, they can see exactly where it is by viewing its location on a smartphone application. This has been achieved by reducing the risk of location spoofing through a chain of zero-knowledge proofs along the components of the system.The XY Oracle has four primary components which are: Sentinels (the data gatherers), Bridges (the data relayers), Archivists (the data storers), and Diviners (the answer aggregators). The XY Oracle has been designed to interact with any smart contract capable, public blockchain such as ethereum , bitcoin, RSK, EOS, NEO, Stellar, Cardono etc. To interact with the XYO network, users on Ethereum, for instance can issue queries to our XYO smart contract and pay in XYO tokensBelow is a diagram showing this works. S’ and S” are each a sentinel (edge node) that collects heuristics. When in contact with each other, they exchange heuristic data and public keys. Both build a full record of the interaction and sign the resulting interaction. The signed record the becomes the next entry in both of their local ledgers (16 sor S’ and 3 for S”). this action binds these two witnesses as being within proximity of each other.Visit the following for more details:www.xyo.networkANN/Bounty threads: bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3053801.0Telegram group: t.me/xyonetwork