
A response to “FUD”In the cryptocommunity, for a long time you had to be “crazy” to believe in fake internet money. For entrepreneurs, taking a leap of faith that you have a great idea is the only thing we have going for us. It’s a long, tough road to start a company and only, as they say, the strong survive.So when someone posts “FUD” about your company, you seek to set the record straight. It’s great they care enough about Horizon to write an article, they just didnt have all the facts. Here below is my response.Hi, thank you for writing a rather in-depth piece on Horizon. You’re correct, Horizon is building a high speed wireless telecommunication service leveraging the strength and power of blockchain directly for our customers benefit.I wanted to speak to a few of your comments in the article.Telecommunications License (ICOL): I find your knowledge of the local market… interesting. Are you a competitor? haha.Horizon has a signed agreement to use another license to operate in Bermuda, we have also been constantly approached to potentially purchase other companies in the market who are struggling with single vector only services (radio, tv, phones etc). We have also been approached to expand our business to a number of nations in the Caribbean, where telecommunications is at least as bad as in Bermuda.In Bermuda the Regulatory Authority has had a moratorium on new telecom licenses almost since coming up with the concept in 2014. When 1st created, licenses were handed out (for free) to anyone who wanted to operate in the sector, from internet, cell phones, tv, radio etc. However, soon after, a rash of mergers happened, coupled with no new licenses being handed out, resulted in a very noncompetitive landscape.I would suggest the desire for competition has not been served by the license situation. However the new CEO of the Regulatory Authority seems to understand that and has recently stated the license situation and may be willing to grant Horizon our own license independently.http://www.royalgazette.com/business/article/20180424/ra-mulls-compensation-for-internet-outagesEither way, our team has built telecommunication companies throughout the Western Hemisphere and we have a clear roadmap for operations in Bermuda and throughout the Caribbean.Token Exchanges: You seem fairly knowledgeable about ICO’s, as such you would recognize that must exchanges require large sums of money to become listed and exchanges also want to make sure the ICO was a successful before entertaining listing of that token. Seeing how Horizon has only just entered its pre-sale we expect those conversations to begin in a few weeks. Also, Binance has just decided to move to Bermuda, which I suspect would give us a bit of a headstart with their exchange.Inital Pre-sale Date: As with any startup, sometimes you miss your goals no matter how hard you try. We had some technical issues to work through on our payment and wanted to ensure quality over speed to market. It’s important that our website worked well, just as its important that our internet service is of a very high standard, hence we again we look for quality as our defining feature.Once again thank you for taking the time to review Horizon, please feel free to contact me with questions before you write your next article on our company.Cheers!Gilbert A. DarrellFounderHorizon Communicationsgadarrell@horizoncomm.co