
Today’s crypto newsCryptocurrency are a digital currency that utilizes cryptography for their security. It is a digital asset which is created to work as a mode of exchange. It controls the creation of additional units of currency and rectifies the transfer of assets.Here comes latest news on cryptocurrency:-1. Bitcoin May Use NFC-Based Payments in FutureCota, a Bitcoin developer proposes a payment method where users will make payments via NFC by connecting their smartphones to the device being paid, basically by hooking to the Bitcoin’s upcoming lightning network.Read more: — Bitcoin May Use NFC-Based Payments in Future2. South Korea Is Likely Focusing on Overseas Listings for Local TradingSouth Korea banned ICOs in the local market in September last year to follow China’s footsteps. Companies are finding another route in the overseas but it presents its own challenges: it is costlier.Read more: — South Korea Is Likely Focusing on Overseas Listings for Local Trading.3. Mastercard to Use Blockchain Tech to Safeguard Identity Data.Mastercard applied for a system that helps improve system accuracy when recording data on the blockchain, by blocking fake data. The system helps improve verification and avoid possible fabrication of personal identity data.Read more: — Mastercard to Use Blockchain Tech to Safeguard Identity Data4. New York on an urge to inspect Crypto exchanges, Experts NoteOn Tuesday, Eric Scheiderman Attorney General New York disclosed that he is inspecting at least 13 cryptocurrency exchanges which include well-known exchange called Coinbase. He added that “Too often consumers don’t have basic facts they need to assess the fairness, integrity, and security of these trading platforms”.Read more: — New York on an urge to inspect Crypto exchanges, Experts Note5. Huobi, a Cryptocurrency exchange to open its office in London.Huobi, a Cryptocurrency exchange is set to launch its office in London. As per a report, Huobi’s senior Chern Chung, business development manager for Europe says that London is preferred location for expanding the business into the Western countries. Further, he added that “Our Statistics show that London is the most active trading scene across all of Europe. We want to have a presence here.Read more: — Huobi, a Cryptocurrency exchange to open its office in London.For more updates: — Visit Coinpedia.