
ADSACTLY on ADSactly — Part #16The next ADSactly Discord channel group is dedicated to Bitshares. There are a few thing to know about old, one and only, awesome Bitshares.There are coins, there are tokens and there is Bitshares. They compete in the crypto market but you have to understand that they’re things totally different, so also the fundamentals and rules that move them.To know what is Bitshares you need to study:http://docs.bitshares.org/bitshares/index.html#what-is-bitsharesHere are some facts about Bitshares that might change and enrich your entire vision of the crypto world.Bitshares is a TXSRB clean token and will not be subject to SEC or other government crackdowns which are happening.Bitshares is being used to create the STOKENS exchange for issuing and trading SEC-compliant tokens. Most/all ICOs will be moving to Bitshares instead of Ether in the future as companies are forced to follow the rules set by the SEC and other government/regulatory agencies. Already there are many ICOs happening on Bitshares — Smoke, Kexcoin, Bitspark, Satoshi.fund, Bondonblockchain, Crypviser, YOYOW from the top of my head — many more on the go!The Billion HERO Campaign is bringing in huge marketing and media visibility to the Bitshares brand and technology. They are bringing Bitshares tech to governments in the US and the Caribbean, celebrities, public companies and traditional startupsBitshares will migrate to EOS when EOS launches. Bitshares was built by Dan Larimer, the main developer of EOS. Bitshares has a plan in place to upgrade the Bitshares chain to EOS tech, enabling sub-second block confirmation times and theorectically unlimited transaction speeds (currently BTS can do 100,000 tx/s, EOS will take it to >1,000,000 tx/s)Bitshares is actively upgrading the exchange user interface and fixing tons of bugs, they are spending over $160,000.00 USD in the next six months to upgrade the exchange to a world-class interfaceChina is shutting down centralized exchanges. US and other countries may follow soon. SEC has recently filed charges against a US based-ICO and they are using it to build a model to crack down on all the other ICOs. Decentralized exchanges are the future of trading crypto and Bitshares is the №1 DEX on the planet by any metric — transactions per second, scalability, security, volume, adoption, speed, number of assets, etc.-Bitshares has been running for over 3 years and has not been hacked. Trading fees are cheap. The community and developers are one of, if not, the best in the world. All transactions are private and stealth.Bitshares is the most heavily used chain in the world, routinely exceeding the transaction/operation volume of Bitcoin and Ether combined. Bitshares recently hit 900,000 tx/op in one day and didn’t even break a sweat. Bitshares is the longest chain in the world.Bitshares recently released an iOS app for the DEX — first DEX in the world to allow you to trade directly on your iPhone. Apple approves!Bitshares is designed to put centralized exchanges out of business. Bittrex is delisting on some trumped up technical reason that doesn’t actually exist. Bitstamp, Bithumb, GDAX, HitBTC, Kraken, Gemini etc. all refuse to list BTS despite it being one of the oldest, most used and highest volume coins on the planet. Seems to be a pattern there that has nothing to do with Bitshares.Centralized exchanges misuse customer deposits (to invest for themselves), get hacked and lose customer funds, stop you from withdrawing randomly, go down randomly so you can’t trade, charge ridiculous fees, and are generally shady are obsolete and they know it. Bitshares trade volume is climbing steadily every day. Bitshares adoption is skyrocketing both by individuals and businesses. Bitshares development is chugging away funded by a $100M USD reserve fund. Bitshares has one of the largest, if not the largest, development teams in the world and it is growing every day.bitshares-talk — let us hear your opinion on Bitshares!bitshares-username — drop your account here. If someone needs to pay for your services, they’ll find you here.hero — hero is a new formula pegged asset (FPA) or dreamcoin called the “HERO” that is mathematically defined to appreciate annually by 5%. Read more about it here: https://steemit.com/bitshares/@stan/the-hero-from-bitshares-island-5 and share your thoughts and ideas on this channel.bitcoin-united — does it really need an explanation? :)If you are interested in joining ADSactly, please read this series from the beginning. Have all of your questions answered in advance.