
OpenPoll —The Solution to Voter Apathy, Giving All Americans An Equal Voice.Many Americans feel they are being ignored. National polls are run almost every day, yet the majority of Americans are never included in the respondent pool.The numbers show that American voter turnout is still lower than most other wealthy nations. The Pew Research Center ranked the U.S. 31st out of 35 countries for voter turnout based on the voting age populace, among the mostly democratic nations that are a part of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.According to PBS, an estimated 58% of eligible voters went to the polls in 2016 to cast their votes. In the controversial Trump vs Hillary election, many non-voters had a strong sense of apathy. A few reasons mentioned were distrust of candidates because of legal allegations, as well as lack of experience. Instead of participating in voting, many Americans stayed home.Midterm voting turnout is even worse. In 2014, 47 million fewer people went to the polls for midterm voting than in the 2012 Presidential Election.Primary elections (an election used either to narrow the field of candidates for a given elective office or to determine the nominees for political parties in advance of a general election) result in even smaller voter turnout. In 2016 only 10.1% of eligible voters in Guilford County took part in primary voting for national and local candidates. Low, but still higher than the statewide turnout of 7.7%.How can we fix this problem and promote stronger civic engagement?Encourage Americans to get involved and stay involved! Your municipal government is where progress happens — or doesn’t. This starts with connecting the dots and seeing how issues discussed in Washington, your state capital or the city you reside affect your day-to-day lives. Local government officials have great power to make decisions that can impact a city for generations. From local transportation to affordable housing solutions, to new business development, the issues are the same from San Francisco, CA to Greensboro, NC.Setting political views and differences aside, a team of millennials and Generation Z students from across the country have come together to give the people of this great nation the voice that is critical to the success of our country. The initiative is centered around creating a force for good, empowering local citizens and demanding collaboration among politicians and constituents. OpenPoll is a mobile app that gives everyone an equal voice.Developed by OpenPoll Inc. © 2018The OpenPoll platform will provide valuable, representative, voter sentiment at a fraction of the cost of traditional polling methods, guaranteed engagements. Upon receiving anonymous feedback from respondents, poll creators will have an option to conduct follow-ups with the exact pool of initial respondents. This allows for two-way dialogue and continued participation from both sides. OpenPoll leverages blockchain technology, resulting in a polling platform that is anonymous, transparent, unstoppable and has no central authority to manipulate results.The current Presidential Administration is committed to pulling back the powers of federal government and returning it to the states and localities. This means that staying in touch with your local government will become increasingly important. The OpenPoll platform is built to help political candidates and elected officials make more informed, data-driven decisions that better represent the citizens they serve.The Electoral College isn’t up for a vote this November, so every single vote at the polls is a voice that is heard. Connecting politicians and constituents prior to and beyond voting day translates into prosperity and progress in America.This June, OpenPoll will conduct a beta launch in Guilford County, North Carolina. Follow the team and this journey to restore the integrity of polling and give YOU a voice.Coming to your city soon!More about OpenPollRead our whitepaperAsk Questions and Connect with our team telegramFollow us on TwitterCheck out our websiteDeveloped by OpenPoll Inc. © 2018