
Daily Bit #93: The Floodgates Are OpenSource: The Atlantic NerdWord On The StreetDigital Gold RushIf you were to ballpark the percentage of firms that are looking to venture into digital currencies, what number would you say? According to a Reuter’s survey, one in five financial institutions are considering a move into crypto within the next year. However, if a source tied to The ICO Journal can be trusted, the number could actually be much higher.Here’s the deal: Morgan Stanley wants to beat Goldman Sachs to the trading floors. In fact, everyone wants to beat Goldman. First mover advantages are real, and there is simply too much growth taking place in the industry for companies to ignore. It’s either get with the program or get out of business.Things are moving fast, and for good reason. The source stated that “we’ve been more specifically tasked to engage with firms that are apt to add to their current portfolios… things are moving quickly and deals are being struck. And you can guess why.” Smaller coins always pump the hardest — the same applies for market capitalizations.The first firms to position themselves will get in lower to the ground than those that arrive after them. They’ll be rewarded for that risk with higher ROIs and more clients than the laggards.Another quote: “Truth be told this is the next arms race. EVERYONE IS RUSHING INTO CRYPTOS. Everyone. There isn’t a bank, a fund, a fund company, a former legend attempting to reclaim old glory, private equity, venture capital, lending, exchanges, consulting firms — everybody. It is the digital gold rush. And our firm wants to get there and pull as many levers as we can.”Disclosure: We are #bullishThe Bottom LineInformation from this “source” could be a load of hot air, but it speaks volumes about what is going on behind the scenes if true. For context, the dot-com bubble “popped” around $3 to $4 trillion after adjusting for inflation. That was in a market only accessible to accredited investors with limited operational hours and during an age of no social media.What’s different this time around:Global market24/7 operationAccessible to all with an internet connectionConnectivity through social mediaThe current market cap is currently below $415 billion. Here’s what you should be asking yourself: Is Wall Street thinking the same thing?