
Blockchain meets fantasy sports MyDFSAs a passionate sports enthusiast, I spend several hours a week in front of the TV watching sporting events. However, just watching the sport matches and celebrating with the winners is simply not enough. People are never satisfied just by following other winners. We all want to be the winners. This is why more and more people use fantasy sports platforms. It gives us the feeling that we are also part of the entire competition. As of June 2017, the fantasy sports industry’s market capitalization was more than $ 7 billion. On average, every user who is over 18 years old, spends more than $ 550 a year. The money spent and the number of users are increasing from year to year. The market is currently controlled by the two biggest providers of the fantasy league. Despite their power, a new platform is coming to the market, whose growth they will not be able to stop. It is called MyDFS.MyDFS is the first blockchain-powered fantasy sports app. A team of experienced developers, who have already released a number of sport related applications, want to bring the platform closer to users. They intend to do this primarily with a friendly user experience and ease of use. They say they do not want to displace rival, but they want to re-install the whole system of a fantasy league.On existing providers of a fantasy sports, there are many problems.PROBLEMS)Problems with deposits and withdrawals,2.)Complicated gaming experience and steep learning curve.3.)Complex verification procedure4.)The uncertain status of fantasy sports at largeSOLUTIONS from MyDFS1.) Due to the decentralized nature of the blockchain protocol, smart contracts, and the coins used instead of fiat money, people can buy or sell their tokens and receive their winnings almost instantly.2.) Instead of building on the existing approaches to the fantasy sports user experience, they worked with real sport fans of different ages and with different sports knowledge to carry out their own user tests.3.) Instead of going through complicated verification procedures, users can be authorized just by using the email and cryptocurrency wallet they automatically receive upon signup. Everyone can play on and use the platform with no limitations on countries,territories, or nationalities.4.) There are problems and regulations that prevent fantasy sports from going truly border less. Most of these arise from the uncertain nature of the game (game of skill or a game of luck), and a high standard of legality for games that involve fiat money. They tackle both issues at once by introducing cryptocurrency tokens to be used throughout the platform, fully replacing fiat money. They therefore exclude fiat money — and all the issues associated with it from the platform.Soft launch of MyDFS app will be on 15th of May 2018. On 4th of June2018, App will be fully playable and available in App Store and Google Play. 4.4. Sports we offer. At launch, they will be offering soccer, ice hockey, basketball, and football. Their platform allows for easy integration with any sport, so we can expect more sports in the future.Considering that, playing the fantasy league is becoming more and more popular. And the fact that the entire market cap is growing every year, I think that the MyDFS project has a bright future. I know that everything is in their hands, but with good marketing, right before the World Cup in Russia, MyDFS can become one of the biggest platforms for playing fantasy sports.ICO detailsICO of a MyDFS will start on 21st of May 2018.Total supply: 125,000,000 MyDFS tokensPrice of a token at ICO: 1$-1.3$ depending on the time of purchaseSoft cap: 4,000,000.00 $Hard cap: 40,000,000.00 $Web site: https://www.mydfs.net/White paper: https://www.mydfs.net/docs/en/whitepaper.pdfBitcointalk ANN thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3125668.0I