
Morgan Stanley Shares Research On Countries That Top Cryptocurrency Trading VolumesInvestment Business is a key thing to study if you want to journey to the business world. And Morgan Stanley, a Financial Services Company, has been known in its study in this sector.Morgan Stanley is not only doing researches, but they are also advisors about distributing capital, managing trade, and more business-related ideas. Government or private institution, Morgan Stanley’s services are still highly regarded.April 29, 2018, Morgan Stanley published a research conducted on the online cryptocurrency market.The main reasons the research was done are:To measure cryptocurrency trading volumes on legal exchanges in some parts of the world.To measure the number of legal exchanges all over the world.“Exchanges” is defined as the platform on which cryptocurrencies trade. The biggest daily trading volumes can actually reach billions. Sheena Shah, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, andher team sent a note to clients this week examining cryptocurrency exchanges around the world.The study shows that Malta has the majority of trading volumes. Next one is Belize. The United Kingdom (UK) is reported to have only 1% of trading volumes but it has the highest number oflegally registered exchanges.This is caused by a big factor from one of the biggest exchanges in the world, Binance, whichdeclared plans of placing their legal headquarters in Malta. It’s a big pull to trading volume towards this European Island.Shah stated:“The largest exchange called Binance announced intentions to set up headquarters there, so ifwe take that company out, Malta would be much further down the list.”Binance’s current registry is in Hong Kong. The reason for its moving away from Asia is because of the tight regulation, specifically from Japan. OKEx, another large exchange, has also stated that they will be branching out in Malta because of how it is seen as a “BlockchainIsland.”Malta holds the record for largest volume but still UK has the largest number of exchanges although their global trading volume is low.Most legal exchanges are located in Hong Kong, the UK, and the US, according to Sheena Shah and her team. These three countries have huge financial centers and the US has technology focus specifically in the Silicon Valley.Some countries like the US and India have plans to lay low on crypto activity as the exchanges are highly monitored by regulators all over the world because of a large sum of money that has flowed into this sector for just the past year. However, many are still open and embracing this industry into their lands.It is also quoted:Governments are having to consider their regulatory stance quickly, as the swiftly advancingcryptocurreny and blockchain industry can have vast economic benefits for a particular countrythrough the creation of start-ups, research and development and financial transactions.