
The official site is signals.network. ICO will hold in late October, two thousand and seventeen years. The SGN (ERC20) tokens will be available for sale.What is the platform?Signals Network aims to build trading strategies that determine the work with crypto-currencies. Data developers are connected to traders by a network of signals. The interface created is quite simple to use, which makes it possible to easily navigate through indicators and analyze the possibility of making a profit when performing operations with a particular crypto currency.Here it is possible to build strategies, focusing on certain trading indicators. At the disposal of users are provided technical analysis, an explanatory dictionary of wisdom, historical data and the like. Thanks to the rich tools, you will have the opportunity to monetize the strategy.Principle of operation of signalsTemplates are used to create models, which eliminates the need for programming skills. Machine learning is not required. It is enough to use the model designer. Just. And the presented indicators are combined together.However, the platform was developed not only for ordinary users. It will be an excellent assistant for professionals in the field of economics, possessing a solid baggage of knowledge and engaged in serious scientific research.Signals Network AdvantagesProgramming skills will not be needed. Any person can learn to use the signals of visual strategy. The indicators (technical analysis, in-depth study, mood analysis) are simply selected, which are then combined.A powerful decentralized supercomputer. There is a connection to a large number of services that work on the blockroom, which makes it possible to use cloud capacities, which makes possible the implementation of complex calculations.Previous trading experience. Signals suggests applying indicators. Their creation was by means of block-technology. Market mechanisms were analyzed. On the basis of the information received, it became possible to generate unique trading strategies, supplemented by trading experience obtained earlier.Product mapWhat is the purpose of the project?The developers set the task of democratization of artificial intelligence in the field of cryptotrading. If the dealer of the crypto currency is given sufficient computing power, the database, then the chances of making correct and clever decisions that contribute to the conclusion of extremely lucrative transactions will increase.The platform decided to meet the demands of traders and provide them with a rich arsenal of various algorithms.Under what conditions will Pre-ICO and ICO be conducted?Generate one hundred and fifty million tokens. Half will be put up for sale, involving two stages.In late October, about two million will be allocated to Pre-ICO with a bonus of thirty percent. The creators hope to collect half a million dollars.With the onset of November, SGT’s seventy-three million will begin to be sold on the ICO. Count on two million dollars. The whole campaign should bring twenty-four million dollars.Distribute SGN as follows:Fifty percent will be released for pre-sale. Twenty percent will be given to the community. Eighteen percent will go to expenses. Ten percent will be allocated for remuneration to partners and consultants. Two percent will be required by the Bounty program.BountyThe program is allocated two percent of SGN, which is three million tokens. The expected initial cost is twenty-five cents. The implementation of SGN is aimed at reaching a price of thirty-six cents per one token.How to get SGN? After entering the bonus office, complete the registration process by confirming your e-mail address. Next, go to the “Settings”, connect the accounts that you have on social networks. Then start the tasks that are not very difficult. For retweets, reposts, husks and so on, users are rewarded with tokens. The amount depends on how many subscribers and friends you have.