
Handbook for the blockchain enthusiasts: Mutual humiliation, away from home, gathering in its own bubble“Trevize looked up, as though to penetrate the thick layer of moon rock that separated him from the surface and space; as though to force himself to see those far distant galaxies, moving slowly through unimaginable vistas of space.”Foundation and Earth, written by the famous American science fiction novelist Asimov, ended like this. This novel predicts that because of the ideological clash in the galaxy, the war may break out at any moment, and the protagonist, Trevize, is trying to bring peace to the galaxy.“If blockchain propels the development of human civilization, and this development makes us go to the interstellar world, we will be proud of every step we’ve taken for the blockchain. Maybe in this moment we are the children of the starry sky. ” Lao Mao, a familiar face in the coin circle and the partner of Coin Capital, said in a recent public speech. He claimed to be the promoter of Bitcoins and blockchain industry.However, Li Xiaolai, a friend of Lao Mao and the partner of Coin Capital, recently said that he has no belief in Bitcoins. “People of faith do not reason, but I prefer logic. I hold Bitcoins because I think it is logically correct.” He also suggested that when discussing Bitcoins, people should try to talk logically, because philosophy, worldview, and feelings are not compatible with logic.On April 9th, Lao Mao and Li Xiaolai united with the Hangzhou government and launched “Xiongan Global Blockchain 10 Billion Innovation Fund”.A week later, “Chong Ge” wrote doggerel on WeChat moments:“The friends in the coin circle are not easy. Xiaolai returns to the imperial court like Song Jiang. Lao Mao’s life is uncertain. Zhao Dong gets up from the grave. Ming Xing washes the face with sulfuric acid. Er Mao gets away. Da Tou’s mind wanders to the green hill.”At present, blockchain world seems to be far away from the ideal interstellar world of Lao Mao. Nowadays, the big shots’ mutual humiliation and accusation bring the dopamine that is used to adjust the boredom to the crowds in the industry; the entrepreneurs of blockchain, especially ICOs and exchanges are seeking the safety radius from other countries; spring breeze has already kissed the face, but the industry is still cold and chilly.Mutual humiliation between big namesWhether Craig Wright is real Satoshi Nakamoto or not, he has been hard recently.On April 4th, V-God appeared at the Walkerhill Hotel in Seoul, South Korea and attended the Deconomy International Block Chain Forum. His debut did not evoke any cheers and even made the scene a little “awkward” because of the fight between him and Craig S. Wright.During the round-table discussion, he pointed out many mistakes in Wright’s speech and bluntly said, “Why is this liar able to make a speech at the conference?” PANews, who was there, saw the audience stunning or laughing.Later Wright replied with sarcasm on Twitter: “When we are discussing BCH (Bitcoin Cash), he just knows that ETH (Ether) will eventually die out.” His supporters also defended him on the Internet.Vitalik Buterin, known as the V-God, is a genius who was born in 1994. At the age of 19, he used Bitcoin’s underlying architecture — the blockchain to write a white paper named Etherum in which social contact, games and other applications can be created. Wright said that he is the founder of Bitcoins, Satoshi Nakamoto in 2016 and Vitalik is always skeptical about it, repeatedly pointing out that Wright should not lie again and pretend to be Satoshi Nakamoto.In 2014, Vitalik, a man with an odd appearance, came to China to look for investors for Ethereum. After taking many hits in Beijing, he got investment in Shanghai from Shen Bo, a partner of Fenbushi Capital. Shen Bo said that he is incredibly bright, because he is comfortable having a conversation, reading and writing in Chinese after living in Shen Bo’s home for half a year. Recently, the more famous mutual humiliation may be in February. The chairman of Fan Cheng Capital and the founder of Kuaidi, Chen Weixing, and the investor named Zhu Xiaohu started a public “fight” on WeChat Moments.Zhu Xiaohu said, “Don’t pull me into groups of 3 o’clock. I would rather miss some chances and not earn some money. Wish everyone protect his/her integrity.” “God observes what people do and history witnesses it. I hope that everyone doesn’t go down in history because of harvesting retail investors and making money with blood!” Chen Weixing also replied bluntly.No matter what the world is, the “big shots” always turn their nose up against each other. Even in the blockchain utopia in which the problem of trust is resolved, the real trust between people is not established, and the greed and ugliness of human nature are magnified by the fluctuating coin price. An industry leader, who is a domestic blockchain evangelist and a coin poker on the list, has told PANews, “How could xxx say that he is a leader? He betrayed the team to go it alone and white papers were plagiarized.” The man caught in this accusation is a renowned speaker in the blockchain forum at home and abroad. The complainant is also accused of being a “flicker” with a fake job.Some people think that the financial freedom achieved by the speculation will make him a big name. However, the man who is obsessed with enjoying getting rich quick will never forget that the “shortcuts” of life, the imbalance of “unworthy virtue” may eventually lead to disaster.Away from homeAfter the 94 regulatory turmoil last year, many old faces in the circle traveled around the world to seek opportunities. Guo Hongcai, known as “Bao Er Ye”, opened a “Leek Manor” and grew “new leeks” in the United States. Guo Hongcai said bluntly, “I am not a VC. I’m usually responsible for backing someone up. I don’t invest money now and I receive 1% for backing some up.”The overseas projects which look for Guo Hongcai to be the spokesman also have their rationale. “The foreigners who are engaged in blockchain also want to be internationalized, and they hope that there will be a Chinese community and a Chinese can speak for them.” Guo Hongcai is very clear about his position and the opposite side’s intentions.Lao Mao also traveled east and recently held a private cruise sharing meeting which cost 1.6 Bitcoins for each person. He used Bitcoins to buy a house in Japan, and set up a company named Onkyo Corporation, which is specialized in supporting domestic industry users to come to Tokyo to start a business and career.“I can understand half of the meaning by reading Japanese and having a good command of English can help me understand half of the meaning.” Lao Mao said that he changed from learning English to Japanese. He is responsible for the international expansion of Coin Capital in Japan. He is also applying for the Japanese exchange license. It should have been approved but some problems delayed the progress.On the contrary, Li Xiaolai is ready to stay in China. “I wanted to immigrate before 2013, but I told my lawyer to cancel the immigration process in 2014. I’ve no such thoughts ever again. China will be the biggest market and the fastest growing area for blockchain in the future. If you let me go, I don’t necessarily want to go.”It is not only the blockchain enthusiasts from China that moved to the other country. After having experienced more than 10 hours of flying from Silicon Valley to Beijing, Dan O’Connor was excited instead of feeling tired.On April 1st, Dan shared his understanding of blockchain and their upcoming blockchain projects at a closed offline meeting in Beijing. Dan, a 24-year-old man, is a blockchain engineer and he earns a lot of money by investing in digital currency.“China and America have the same enthusiasm and curiosity about the blockchain. I also hope to find a good investment project in China.” Dan told PANews that he will visit China more often.In fact, there are a good few foreign teams that come to China to promote projects, but the effect of publicity is not optimistic. PANews once joined the WeChat group of Chinese community at a meetup event for American projects, but later it became a soft-text group of publishing links and advertisements. The project’s foreign workers who do not understand the situation, often cooperate with the “extra”, sending the emoji of thumbs up in the group.Meeting! Party! Summit!On the day when Dan was talking in China, a blockchain sharing session was held at the University of Chicago, USA, thousands of miles away. The author of PANews in the United States found that this small blockchain sharing session is sought after by students. There were no empty seats in the scene, and almost half were Asians. The students focused on the applications of blockchain and what are the better blockchain projects. A blockchain sharing session at the University of ChicagoA student from Taiwan, who studies economics and management in college, told PANews that the school curriculum is also concerned about the blockchain and digital currency. “The teacher just assigned a paper to analyze the possibility of Bitcoins becoming a widely-circulated currency.”At the beginning of April, an unexpected snowstorm made Beijing return to the winter. However, the winter of the coin circle has lasted for a while; therefore, everyone has some spare time to organize various meetings. Guo Hongcai said that he would educate more retail investors and he goes to forums and sharing sessions. From Shanghai to Taiwan to South Korea and Japan, followed by Singapore, the market leader of a blockchain project told PANews that he would bring a suitcase for longer than half a month when he goes on his business trip. There are endless meetings and parties that he is afraid of missing out.In April in Seoul, the 11-degree night is a bit chilly. Many blockchain projects took advantage of the Deconomy Forum to throw parties. Under the dim light in the bar, the bartenders twisted their bodies and served cocktails. In front of him, there were a dozen blockchain practitioners from all over the world. It is like a net friend offline meet-up. Everyone exchanged business cards and yelled at each other to add their WeChat, kakao and WhatsApp.In South Korea, where the speculation is hot, the authors of PANews in Korea find that now everyone is carefully concealing ICOs and speculations and is keen to discuss technology and landing. In fact, South Korea’s attitude towards the blockchain is still relatively modest. After all, it is also difficult for the government to resist 200,000 people’s petition of “opposing the ban on virtual currency transactions” in the official websites.“The bear market is coming, and whoever doesn’t want to touch the sore spot. Now we are focusing on technology.” The participant aside warned about it. It is true that both Bitcoins and Ethereum began to fall off cliffs and don’t return to normal at present after they reached a high point in December and January last year.There are not many Chinese participants at the Deconomy blockchain forum in Korea, because less than a month ago, the blockchain forum called TokenSky was organized in Seoul. This forum was mostly covered by blockchain projects and speakers from China. During the formal communication, although everyone spoke English on the stage, the simultaneous interpretation equipment in the hands of the audience was mostly tuned to the second channel. Many simultaneous interpretation equipment simultaneously spoke Chinese, and the entire venue was covered by the translation. Some media reported that there were about 30 project exhibition booths on two floors of the field, of which 90% are backed by Chinese. Even if there were several booths backed by none-Chinese, Chinese are on their partner list. Most of the media seats were occupied by domestic professional blockchain media and some science and technology media.In fact, the organizer of this forum is a third-party service platform of pan-game from China. The next stop of TokenSky is Japan, where the Bitcoin transaction volume stands at more than 55% of the world at present.Although the venue is rounded up by the Chinese, such forums are in line with the urgent needs of the item side to expand overseas.“Advertising ICO is forbidden in China, and many projects go abroad for promotion. But most of the real users still come from China. This is the current contradiction.” Li Rongge, the partner of Dahe Venture Capital, frankly stated.During the beginning of April, a blockchain summit in Shanghai was suddenly halted and the reason for it is unknown. =.In the meanwhile, in other parts of the world, the fab of blockchain conferences seems to be fading. At a recent forum called BlockCity in Taipei, Zheng Yiting, the founder of OTCBTC, reminded, “Now, to invest in ICO tokens requires a deep understanding of the value of the project. Speculative blockchain companies may leave with money. Some projects have such low commercial value that they cannot be traded in any exchanges. Unless you can see the value of the project or there is insider information, you shouldn’t speculate easily in the coin circle.” The author of PANews in Taiwan found that there were few audiences sitting around the stage and nobody cared about project exhibition booths.Let us move the focus to the southern hemisphere. Wellington, the capital of New Zealand, is indeed a bit calm. At least when it comes to having the meeting, “people of Hui Village” are not enthusiastic. The authors of PANews in New Zealand found that there has been no blockchain and Fintech-related (Financial Technology) conference recently, although New Zealand media have publicly reported that New Zealand will become a global blockchain center.On April 16th, a domestic blockchain project held a meeting in a shared workspace in Wellington. 24 audience were mostly technical practitioners. The project participants did not forget to recommend their own tokens while introducing their projects. “Don’t like you didn’t buy Bitcoins five years ago. You may regret it now.” People who know the business seemed to be few. “I come here to eat pizza.” One of the two women sitting under the stage jokingly told PANews.Wu Xiaobo said that many people are eager to grab the “new age dividend” in the boom of Bitcoins and blockchain. Those people include young entrepreneurs, family women who replenish hyaluronic acid three times a year, and urban white-collar workers who often pay for knowledge.The dream of getting rich will not be easily destroyed. At a blockchain exchange meeting in Beijing, an investor directly asked the speaker, “Do you know the regulatory information? Can you disclose the situation? What should we do? ”Faced with such sudden and straightforward questions, the speakers can only explain the attitude of supervisory with lofty words. Same as investing in equity, digital currency investors will not miss any opportunities to inquire any insider news…