
What Might It Take For Smart Contracts to be Legally Recognized?This is by no means meant to be an exhaustive read on this topic, but more some random thoughts that come to mind.Before we dive into smart contracts being legally recognized, let’s consider what legal contracts are in the first place.A legal contract has general elements, which must be ascertained for the contract to be recognized by courts. It needs a clear offer, which is the composition of terms, mostly rights and obligations. It must be clear and comprehensive on who has to perform some act, and who can do what and when. Otherwise, it would be very difficult to prove to the court what the actual contents of the offer were. To really constitute a legal offer, it must also show the declaration of intent — who was the person willing to be bound and offer that package of terms and when. Declaration of intent is mostly a handwritten signature, however. And it can be anything which shows the clear intent of the person to offer the package. Thus, digital signatures are a viable solution almost everywhere, if the technology is sound.For that offer to become a contract, it needs another element called an acceptance. This is that another person has seen the terms in the offer and declares their intent to be bound with those terms accepting to be responsible of their obligations in the contract.Blockchain projects like Agrello are working to solve the problem of making smart contracts understandable in a legally viable way in human language for legal professionals, including judges.Agrello says its system will also make contracts more comprehensive for people without legal expertise. What they call “the first step towards recognition.”In order to achieve this, a blockchain system or protocol would have to harness the solutions to make possible the provision of a clear declaration of intent. This would likely entail digital identity and digital signature solutions, as well as KYC solutions.Estonia has used digital identity and signature services for many years, giving credence to the notion that such a solution can be recognized by courts and works potentially better than a hand signature in securing and proving people’s’ identities.The whole European Union has opened up the gate for digital identity and signature services, with Regulation 910/2014 or eIDAS, which sets parameters of qualified services for electronic identities and signatures. It also leaves openings for new technologies.Article 25 paragraph 1 states “An electronic signature shall not be denied legal effect and admissibility as evidence in legal proceedings solely on the grounds that it is in an electronic form or that it does not meet the requirements for qualified electronic signatures.”Therefore, all EU courts must consider all services that are deemed to be electronic signatures. If the system can prove the identity and declaration of intent, it is already today applicable at least in the whole European Union.Precedence can be furthered in courts around the world. With each new precedent, it then becomes easier for users of legally recognized smart contracts.At the heart of legally recognized smart contracts is identity verification, and the revealment of this in a sufficient manner to opposing contract parties.