
So often in the world of Crypto investments, projects rely on hype to the point where a company with no product can often have a multi-billion dollar market cap. This is especially true of ICOs, because oftentimes all that is available before investing is a vague idea & speculation.What happens, then, when all the information you need is already there, but people just don’t take the time to look for it? Let’s look at one such example, and we’ll go over some of the red flags that could have really helped investors.Uptoken is a token based on an already existing company, Coinme. This offers us a rare opportunity, because a fair amount of data is already available on that company’s success and business practices. Coinme operates some 20 Bitcoin ATMs spread across six states. The ICO site claims 40 ATMs, but it is unclear how that is possible given that Coinme’s own “ATM location finder” only shows 20.Such marketshare. Much wow.Looking at this map, you must also understand that their entire business model is dependent on collecting fees from these ATMs, which are a relatively small portion of any Bitcoin sold.That said, Coinme decided to launch an ICO in order to expand their business. The token itself doesn’t have much reason for existing other than as a funding mechanism, but the stated utility of it is to offer benefits to holders who access the company’s ATMs.These benefits include:1.5% discount on ATM fees when transacted through your Uptoken walletBonus Uptokens deposited in your account, equal to 1% of transactions at Coinme ATMSAbility to vote on currencies Coinme’s ATMs should supportAs an added incentive, CoinMe is supposed to buy Uptokens directly from exchanges in order to fulfill those obligations, once the 37,000,000 tokens in their reserve account are exhausted.In reality, this isn’t much more than a rewards program for using their ATMs, with the added caveat that you have to have invested a significant amount of money in their project to begin with.But how much could they have possibly raised, with this non-existent use-case, small market share, and thin (11 pages, large font!) whitepaper?They really, really couldn’t have done it without you.Now, what could investors have done to avoid overpaying for such a fundamentally flawed project? Let’s look at a few things I like to consider when reviewing projects:Read the whitepaper: Whitepapers are long, boring explanations of the details of any blockchain-related project. They can be a hard read for anyone, but there are a few things you can look out for. Are they fluff-heavy? That is, do they spend a lot of time explaining the basics of cryptocurrency like it is your first time hearing about it?Further, do they use a lot of full-page pictures and graphs to fill out the page-count? Also, check the page count! Is it under 15 pages? Is the font huge? Does it feel like those essays you wrote in school, where you spent the first 1,000 words describing the flowers on the porch outside Abraham Lincoln’s house, and double-spaced at that? These are warning signs!Check the team members & their references: You should pretend that you’re interviewing them for a job, because you are — the job of growing your investment. Do all of the Team Members have LinkedIn pages? Good! That’s a start. More importantly, though, is their “Team” picture the exact same one used on their LinkedIn profile? If so, that could mean that it was copied from LinkedIn, and they’re not actually on the team.Another thing to look out for is whether they list this project on their page. Are they showing another job from some date up to ‘present’? This could also be a warning sign. Either they aren’t involved in the project, or they’re not proud of it. You should also check to see that they have traceable connections on LinkedIn, so you know that it isn’t a new page created specifically for this purpose.Check the background of the company & key members’ former jobs: Again, pretend that you’re hiring them. Would you hire someone for your company, without performing a basic background check? No? Then be sure to do that for key team members.So often you’ll find that CEO John Everyman founded several other companies, but when you look for those companies you find that they either folded, had little revenue, or didn’t exist at all.Check the financials and do the math: on what they’re valuing the company at (Supply x Price) versus competitors in traditional markets. With Coinme we can check industry estimate sites to find a ballpark revenue in order to determine the company’s health:That feels…underwhelming.Now, if you as a potential investor were to look at that, you could use a simple valuation formula in order to determine what this company is worth. These range from 0.5x revenue all the way to 4x revenue, if you’re being generous. Using the high-end of that spectrum, we can see that, at best, Coinme is worth around $4 million.The ICO price that ICOBench (3.5 rating) and several others (4+ rating) gave had them valued at over $10 million. The total raised by the ICO, as we can see above, was nearly $19 million. The current market cap is $28.5 million. This is roughly seven times higher than the most generous valuation one could give the company, in traditional markets.$18.9 million or nearly a million per ATMIf you visit the Uptoken subreddit now, there is very little activity besides the odd exchange listing, or update about being able to track the price. The website still only lists the sparse details available before the ICO, as if it hadn’t already happened months ago.This brings me to my last point. Be wary of forward-looking statements. The more they toss out statistics about how big the crypto market is, or how much money there is in the space, the more skeptical you should be. Ideally I like for a company to have a realistic five-year financial plan laid out in their whitepaper. By “realistic” I mean that the first two to three years should show negative income; they’re collecting funds because a business should reasonably expect to lose money until they gain traction. Below is an example of what this looks like:Notice how the ICO income is needed for the expected cash-burn from the first three years’ buildup and client acquisition. Realism trumps hype.Growing a business is never easy. It should never be presented as if it were. Legitimate businesses in traditional markets are made to issue disclaimers along with forward-looking statements for this very reason. It should also be noted that implying that there is likely to be a return on your investment could help a crypto fail the Howey test, which is especially damning for a US company like Coinme.Be sure to investigate whether or not it could fail the Howey test, especially if they are US-based, which would make it an unlicensed security. Here is a great article on determining whether or not a token fails the Howey test.Will Uptoken eventually find success? That remains to be seen. They and most other ICOs are purely speculative markets at this point, but by doing the research and looking for red flags you can mitigate your risk when investing in crypto markets. Due diligence can cost you time initially, but foregoing it may cost you everything.