
Asset Token, Ten Commandments, and a Carpenter’s CupASET…..And so Asset Token ERC20 took its leave from the land of the closed sourced blockchains and headed to a new frontier — the land of freedom and ethics for all. Backed by the Ethereum Blockchain and its honorable leader Dennis Lyon, Asset Token sought new land.Asset Token had its challengers on the way, but the members of the Asset Token team summoned the power of the people and God. The Dead Sea opened up, allowing Asset Token ERC20 to pass to a foreign shore where financial and social freedom flourished.One day Asset Token pioneers climbed the mountain to list Asset Token on an exchange. Others became restless and created different crypto tokens. The team received the Divine word and carried Asset Token commandments from atop the mountain:1. Asset Token ERC20 is the only open source crypto reward-points platform.2. Asset Token ERC20 is a seamless API to existing infrastructure.3. Asset Token adoption enables banks to remove unused reward point liabilities from their balance sheets.4. Asset Token adoption enables retailers to use crypto reward points to build a loyal consumer base and reclaim market share.5. Asset Token shall have only strong top advisors and professionals on its team.6. Asset Token shall help consumers get out of the credit card hamster wheel.7. Asset Token can be adopted by any company looking to swap its rewards points program with a crypto currency reward point.8. Asset Token shall be open sourced.9. Asset Token loves everyone.10. San Dimas High School Football rules!The people were inspired — they applauded the future of Asset Token. Except one man, who was pioneer team advisor David Drake. He sought forth to find the true meaning of Blockchain.As Drake approached a cave, he was informed he would find the Bitcoin. Drake entered the cavern and noticed people afraid to go into the darkness. Because of his faith he passed to the Golden Room. There he noticed gold idols, jewelry and tokens. He had one chance to Hodl the Bitcoin, or perish.Drake looked around carefully and chose a plain carpenter’s cup. He remembered Blockchain was created for the people as the direct result of banking speculation in real estate in 2008. He chose wisely.