
5G Networks Promise Better ConnectivityThe global data creation rate is projected to experience exponential growth — and 5G networks will help accommodate the increase.In their Data Age 2025 report, research group IDC anticipates the world will create 163 zettabytes of data per year by 2025. That’s 163 trillion gigabytes, to give some perspective.It’s also a tenfold increase from the 16.3 zettabytes of data consumed in 2016 — a figure the IDC states will continue to double annually through 2025.What Does the Spike in Global Data Consumption Mean?Before we delve into the implications of the increasing data creation rate, let’s explore how data has evolved over the last three decades. In recent years, data has become a critical aspect of human life, changing the way we educate and entertain ourselves while informing the way we interact with people and businesses from around the world.In the abovementioned report, the IDC projects the next eight years will bring “virtually limitless” results regarding the power of data. Researchers predict consumers will create and access data on a device-neutral basis, and that by 2025, almost 20% of data in the global datasphere will be critical to our everyday lives.Similarly, by the same year, a connected person will likely interact with connected devices nearly 4,800 per day. These figures reveal that we are relying on data more than ever before, and that we need to make changes to manage this growth.This is where 5G networks come in. Service providers have already begun testing 5G routers for homes and businesses, and if there’s anything we know so far, it’s that these networks represent the future of connectivity.What Do We Really Know About 5G?5G networks mark the fifth generation of cellular technology, and will substantially improve the coverage, speed, and responsiveness of wireless networks around the world. At the 2018 CES event, experts from the Consumer Technology Association stated the multiservice network will be anywhere from 10 to 100 times faster than the current 4G LTE cellular connection.This means you could download a two-hour movie in 2.6 seconds using a 5G network, compared to 6 minutes using 4G LTE. Consumers will experience not only faster internet connections on their smartphones as a result of 5G, but speedier internet in general; the effects of this will be visible everywhere from Internet of Things (IoT) devices to smart cities and connected cars.In addition, 5G will reduce latency — that is, slow load times and lack of responsiveness — quite significantly, with a maximum latency of 4 milliseconds compared to the 20-millisecond maximum latency of 4G LTE networks. Complete with a higher capacity for data, enhanced connectivity, and top speeds, in the next few years 5G networks will replace the 4G LTE connection consumers rely on today.How Will 5G Provide Better Coverage?Current networks feature large towers dispersed every few miles. 5G, however, will require the deployment of small-cell stations to accommodate the ever-increasing data the world is consuming. These miniature base stations will also ensure better coverage in dense urban areas.Moreover, the base stations will rely on massive MIMO (multiple-input multiple-output) to include several antennas, which will decrease the risk of error and enhance network efficiency. Accordingly, the stations will reduce interference by directing the wireless signal in a beam pointing directly at the device. They will also run at “full duplex,” transmitting and receiving 5G signals at the same time and on the same frequency, rather than alternating between transmitting and listening modes, which can hinder connectivity.When Will 5G Be Available?Service providers believe 5G will become widespread in 2020. That said, the deployment of these networks will begin as early as late 2018:Verizon intends to roll out a non-standard 5G network in the latter half of 2018, exclusively for home internet access.AT&T has announced it will begin introducing 5G for phones around the same time.T-Mobile, Sprint, and Qualcomm intend to deploy 5G in 2019, with the former promising nationwide coverage in 2020.Ultimately, as digital devices become smarter and generate increasing amounts of data, wireless networks must evolve to accommodate the change. And by 2025, when consumers around the world may very well be creating 163 zettabytes of data per year, 5G networks will have undoubtedly become the norm.Dove Network is the gateway to the new decentralized internet, utilizing the Ethereum blockchain to create a mesh network of Internet Service Providers (ISPs). Please reach us at hello@dove.network or contact us for more information on our platform.