
Oceans Capital Launches Weekly Cryptocurrency Investing ReportNote from the Founder: Zachary DashWhen I first quit my job and jumped into cryptocurrency a year ago, I had no idea where to start. Youtube videos gave me some good visuals of how blockchain technology worked. Podcasts provided some pretty good interviews that I could learn from. But I knew if I truly wanted to get involved, I needed to grow my network. After my fiancé finally asked me to stop talking about those “Digital Bitcoin-y Things”, I decided to join a few facebook groups to surround myself with other like-minded and crypto obsessed individuals.For the first time, I could learn from others, geek out, and occasionally try to internally justify my bag of coins. I began asking advice from others who had been around-the-block (pun intended), while simultaneously attempting to help others who were newer to the industry than myself. This didn’t feel like a ‘phase’, my obsession wasn't going away.My favorite part about the cryptocurrency industry is the ability for anyone, at any stage, to jump in and make an impact. Within a few months, I started up a blog to give myself a safe-space to shill my coins. After the blog, I began some small content writing for a few crypto projects. Eventually, I got the opportunity to get more involved with the CCI network and ended up jumping into a full time position at a cryptocurrency marketing agency.Fast forward to today, I am laying the foundation for my newest venture; Oceans Capital. The mission is simple — connect the top cryptocurrency investors, entrepreneurs and influencers from around the industry to share their thoughts on the current state of the market. Getting expert analysis from reliable and trustworthy thought leaders is everything I wish I had when I first started my journey into investing. Many of us have heard the term ‘You are the average of the five people you spend the most time around’. In the cryptocurrency world, this could not be further from the truth.Every week, Oceans Capital releases a Cryptocurrency Investing Report that captures insight of featured thought leaders to share their insight on investment questions. What are some under-the-radar coins? What advice would you give new traders? How many coins are you holding at one time and what percent of your portfolio is Bitcoin? With a combination of hedge fund managers to CEO’s, we make sure to capture every perspective in all sectors of the industry. In our first edition, we have an all-star cast.Justin Wu is the founder of Blocknauts, a growth marketing agency for Blockchain companies and has been featured in the WSJ, Samsung, CES, and NASA.Crypto Sally is a rising youtube & twitter personality who does a lot of research and fundamental analysis on coins and ICOs to find the best long-term investments.Vincent Lao (Wu), previously founder of Crypto Castles, is now head of Cartel where they perform due diligence on ICOs to ensure that the community invests in promising pre-sales and not shilled lemons.Michael Lewellen is an investor and founder of Cryptocurrency Consulting; a firm that helps early adopters understand and secure digital currencies and has built blockchain solutions for clients that include Rewards.com and Thomson-Reuters.While the weekly report costs between $12-$250 for the full document, Oceans Capital also makes a portion of the report public and open for anyone to research and share.