
How to Register for the Virtue Poker Token SaleThe Virtue Poker Token Sale is almost here! The team at Virtue Poker has worked towards this day for almost three years, and we’re happy to share final details on how to participate in the Token Sale. The sale opens on Wednesday, April 25 at 10am US Eastern Daylight Time.Register HEREHere is everything you need to do to participate in the Token Sale:Click here and create a Token Foundry account. Token Foundry is a ConsenSys service that we’re using to manage this process. IMPORTANT NOTE: If you have already joined the whitelist, be sure to use the same email address you used when you joined.Complete the General Assessment Test. This is a short test to confirm your understanding of tokens. (Estimated time: 10 minutes)If you have already submitted your identification documents and received an approval email, skip to Step 5. Token Foundry will not ask you for these documents again.Upload your identification documents as requested. You will receive an email from us when they are approved (usually within one hour).Click on the Virtue Poker Project Page and then click Register.Complete the Token Questionnaire. This is an even shorter test to confirm that you know what VPPs (our tokens) are. (Estimated time: 5 minutes)Respond to the additional questions about your token purchase (only for purchases over $10k USD).That’s it. The whole process should take less than 30 minutes. Once you have completed these steps, you’re ready — the last thing you need to do is go to https://www.tokenfoundry.com/contribute/virtuepoker at 10am EDT on April 25 to be part of the sale!Reminder: there are several exciting perks as a token buyer, including:Five free entries into the $10,000 Main Event of the world’s largest poker tournament, plus $3,000 cash for travel, the giveaway will be conducted on June 23rdFree entry to our 8 Million VPP Early User Appreciation Tournament if you contribute at least 4 ETH. At the hard cap token price, this is a $1 million equivalent freeroll.Free entry into the $10,000 Main Event plus $3,000 cash for travel if you contribute at least 150 ETH.And, of course, you will be an Alpha and Beta early user, so you’ll get to participate as our system enters its final stages of development. We look forward to seeing you at the tables!