
Why Crypto is the place to be for women?Sure, the internet is a great and amazing place — almost a mythical unicorn — but it was created a long time ago and its basic infrastructure, both physical and theoretical, shows its age more than old German tales about princesses waiting to be kissed by the handsome prince. From the way that the internet routing nodes and various servers are designed and laid out, to the so-called ‘soft infrastructure’ — websites, internet-based services such as streaming and so on, to the even softer things like comments sections, forums and, of course, all the all-encompassing social networks vacuuming up every detail of our life, from the last time we visited the pharmacy to identifying who we’re spending the night with by our phone’s proximity to his or her phone. These were all designed by men who, to cheaply paraphrase the clothing brand, was for them by them (pretty please, don’t sue me).The result of this is inescapable. The internet has become a place where women are constantly harassed or assaulted. A minority of very loud and navel-gazing men vent the frustrations of their oversized egos with their inversely proportional genitalia with the benefit of nearly perfect anonymity and almost never face any consequences. Women are frequently targeted and, as forums such as 4chan have shown in the past, their own anonymity is breached and laid bare by the crazy young cat-men demographic.I feel that crypto has not yet gone that way. Bitcoin, the very corner-stone of crypto, was designed by an anonymous developer, or even a team of developers, working under a Japanese pseudonym — Satoshi Nakamoto. There is no clue as to who Satoshi Nakamoto is or was, there are even some well-researched theories floating around that Satoshi was a woman, which might make sense to get credibility in the male-dominated IT sector. I guess we’ll never know, but whether Satoshi was male or female doesn’t really matter, anyway. What does matter is that Satoshi created crypto and the blockchain as we know them and they have caught on like a wildfire. Cryptocoins and blockchain applications no longer inhabit dark corners of the internet that make you feel like you need an STD test after visiting them. When everyone and everything from Canada’s statistical authorities to Wall Street to your neighbourhood barista are using some form of crypto, you know it’s gone more mainstream than a vegan in Whole Foods.There are new coins popping up all the time and women have the best chance they have ever had to step in and shape the direction this is going to go in. At the highest rates since records have been kept, women are going for STEM degrees (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) and, in many STEM fields, women vastly outnumber men. This numerical advantage and the way in which our social roles have changed demand that we make our voices heard.Narrow-minded people would say that cryptocoins a great opportunity for us to get involved. This misses the point of cryptocoins entirely and of what we can achieve. This is not just getting a share in the next Facebook or even Google or contributing a line of code to some open source project. Cryptocoins and blockchains are etching out new ways to transaction for goods and services, to exchange information, to raise funds for inspiring start-ups and to create digital spaces free from the traditional boundaries of societal constrains. This is about re-defining the material basis of human existence. We are now back at ground zero and have a chance to re-write Genesis and write a new part for Eve.Some of the most ambitious projects go even farther than that and re-define the internet itself. I said that the internet was created by men. We now have a chance to re-define it. One project that caught my attention was SkyWire, which creates an internet that gives you perfect anonymity and that would allow us to create electronic spaces designed by us. This is more than just about digital privacy from both potential stalkers or government snoopers. This is about taking what the premise of the internet was, a free space for people to explore, and setting it back to zero for us to mould in our way. If we arrive late to this party, too, we may never get a second chance.Whatever we choose to get involved in — we should make sure that our time, energy and money are invested in high-impact project but, most importantly, that, this time, we get invested.