
Best Blockchain Certification, Courses & TrainingTo help you learn the fundamentals of Blockchain, become an expert at it, or even teach others about it, we have found and listed the top courses, training programs, certifications and tutorials available online. The best part here is the ease with which you can sign up for any of these courses sitting anywhere in the world and they come at a very affordable cost so it doesn’t burn your pocket. We don’t like wasting time, so let’s get to the point!1. Blockchain Certification : IBM Blockchain Foundation for DevelopersThis highly reputed certification program comes with experienced IBM blockchain developers teaching you concepts and strategies on building blockchain business networks. An ideal choice for software developers who are new to blockchain, this course is taught by Ant Cole, WW Blockchain Enablement at IBM Blockchain and Dave Gorman, Global Blockchain Labs Engagement at IBM Industry Platform. The fact that this training just requires 6 weeks of study with only 2 hours to be dedicated every week makes it an ideal weekend course for those with a full time commitment elsewhere. You will earn a Certificate on successful completion of the course.Key USPs –– Learn about Blockchain fabric development & architecture– Get to know how to transform your business using blockchain– Deep dive into Hyperledger Composer, understand the underlying structures, and use it for a real project– Learn in a community environment with thousands of other learners so you can discuss, debate and master concepts better– High course rating and good reviewsRating : 4.4 out of 5You can Sign up Here2. Blockchain Course : Blockchain and Bitcoin FundamentalsThis is one of the best blockchain course, created by George Levy and it will help you demystify the key elements of blockchain and Bitcoin while making you understand how the technology works. This is one quick program that will take under 3 hours to get over.Key USPs –– High rating of 4.7 out of 5– Learn about what is Blockchain and Bitcoin– Role of Bitcoin miners, How Block Hashes work in a Blockchain– Value of Blockchain — DAOs and DACs– A crisp course that has already been taken up by more than 30,000 students worldwide– Sending and Receiving BitcoinsRating : 4.7 out of 5You can Sign up Here3. Blockchain Training : Ethereum and Solidity: The Complete Developer’s GuideStephen Grider is a champion online instructor having taught more than 200,000 students on udemy alone! With a background of working for top corporations in the bay area, he now focuses his energy on training young (and old) minds to get better at all aspects of web development. He is one of the highest rated trainers and all his courses are extremely valuable and knowledgeable. In this program he will teach you how to use Ethereum, Solidity and Smart Contracts to build applications based on the blockchain. We have no doubt in calling this the best Blockchain tutorial.Key USPs –– Comprehensive course spanning 24 hours including 10 articles, all with lifetime access– Trainer help you work on real projects with Ethereum– Learn to design, test and implement secure Smart Contracts– Learn to use the latest version of Ethereum development tools– Learn in depth the capability and scope of SolidityRating : 4.7 out of 5You can Sign up Here4. Become a Blockchain Developer with Ethereum and SolidityFirst lets talk about the trainers. Sebastien Arbogast, is a fullstack software developer, consultant, speaker and an entrepreneur. Along with Said Eloudrhiri, he has been working towards getting more developers involved in blockchain and developing better tools for blockchain development. Said has been working in IT for 25+ years and a is a proficient developer, software architect, team leader as well as agile coach. With 2 CVs like that you know you are in very safe hands in this course. Together, this duo will help you develop your first decentralized application from scratch on the Ethereum Blockchain.Key USPs –– Learn how to develop a distributed application, how to unit test them and create a user interface for them– Learn how to use the Truffle build and testing framework– The tutorial goes from the very basics to advanced levels– Learn about the fundamental of the solidity smart contract language– Get lifetime access to 15 hours of online content + 3 articles and 49 supplemental resourcesRating : 4.6 out of 5You can Sign up Here5. Blockchain Developer Training : Ethereum Blockchain Developer: Build Projects Using SolidityCreated by Ravinder Deol and Thomas Wiesner, two renowned experts in this domain, this training is all about building Blockchain projects using Solidity programming. Before you enroll for this course, you should have a basic understanding of either Web Development, JavaScript, Ajax-Requests, AngularJS or other related platforms. Doesn’t mean you need to be an expert in the same. Basic knowledge will be good to go.Key USPs –– Types of blockchain and potential uses of the same– What are Smart Contracts– Using MetaMask plugin– Real time action using Solidity– Learn all about Decentralisation as you work with the technology– Learn how to use Web3 with different projectsRating : 4.2 out of 5You can Sign Up Here6. Ethereum Developer Masterclass: Build Real World Projects — Blockchain TutorialThomas and Ravinder are back with a development project training for Blockchain. This 10 hour course helps you become adept at the programming languages used to create blockchain projects. Most importantly, you will get to create real time projects with the trainers through this program. You should be familiar with Git, HTML, JavaScript and Bootstrap incase you decide to sign up.Key USPs –– Develop using Latest Solidity, Web3js, Truffle, TestRPC and MetaMask– Basic development knowledge will also do, don’t need to be an expert in the domain– Thomas and Ravinder have been involved with Blockchain since 2012 and come with multi disciplinary experience with them– Attendee Raymond Lieu feels “Wow what a course! I’ve learned a lot about how Solidity, Truffle, and Web3 + Javascript work together, building a real project”Rating : 4.3 out of 5You can Sign up Here7. Blockchain Developer Training : Getting Started with Ethereum Solidity DevelopmentSebastien Arbogast is a full stack software developer, consultant and trainer with over 12 years of experience. He teams up with Said Eloudrhiri who’s been working in IT for the last 25 years! With a CV like that, you know you are in the safest of hands. They both have decided to share their knowledge on this subject to help you learn and grow in the field of blockchain and ethereum development using Solidity.Key USPs –– Learn to develop a distributed application– Understand how to write smart contracts and creating a user interface for them– Learn how to use Metamask– You will also learn Truffle building and testing framework– Deploying a decentralized app to various Ethereum instances (testrpc, private chain, test chain, main net)– Participant Mohit Shah feels “The course was complete and really good with all the explanations. I had know experience or idea about solidity but this course helped me to really get started with Ethereum DAPP development.”Rating : 4.6 out of 5You can Sign up Here8. Blockchain Course for Beginners : The Basics of BlockchainThis is only for those wanting to get an overview and introduction to the world of blockchain. A quick 1.5 hour video training takes you through the fundamentals you need to understand this technology.Key USPs –– You will be able to pen down a piece regarding use cases and industry potential of Blockchain.– Help your business or your clients get ready for the emerging decentralized economy– Created by 5 experts on the subject — Tom Serres, Bettina Warburg, John Fitch, Collin Cusce, Tate Ryan-Mosley– 6,000 + people have already attended the trainingRating : 4.2 out of 5You can Sign up Here9. Blockchain Certification : Blockchain for Business — An Introduction to Hyperledger TechnologiesThis certification by The Linux Foundation will you learn how to start building blockchain applications with Hyperledger frameworks. You will learn how information is generated, stored, and shared in various blockchains, and also understand how to evaluate whether a blockchain solution is suitable for your business or not. Taught by experts in the domain including Navroop Sahdev, FinTech and Blockchain Entrepreneur and Nathalie Salami Blockchain Attorney.Key USPs –– This course is suitable for both nontechnical and technical audiences– You will learn to identify suitable blockchain uses for your business requirements– You will be guided through implementation of various blockchains– An eight week course, with a commitment of 3–4 hours per week making it ideal for weekend study as wellRating : 4.3 out of 5You can Sign up Here10. Blockchain Certification : Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Technologies — Princeton UniversityPrinceton University brings you this Bitcoin & Cryptocurrency Certification Course taught by Arvind Narayanan, Assistant Professor at the University. Spread across 11 weeks, this is ideal for those who want to take it a little slow and understand all about crypto in detail from an academic point of view.Key USPs –– Learn how Bitcoin achieves decentralization– Learn How to Store, Use and Mine Bitcoins– Get a Certification from Princeton– Instructor discusses in detail about the future of Bitcoin , Altcoin and Cryptocurrencies in generalRating : 4.7 out of 5You can Sign up HereIf there’s a buzzword that’s buzzing everywhere in the present day, it’s Blockchain. And why shouldn’t it be? It is set to change the way transactions occur and so much more as we know it. Now why would you not want to learn more about the technology, understand how it works, maybe deploy it for a client or apply it within your own organisation?So those folks were the best courses, training, tutorials and certification programs on Blockchain. Hope it helped you find the one you were looking for. If you are happy with what you found, do share it with your friends on social media ? You may also want to check out Cyber Security Courses Online, Unity Courses, Best Android Course, iOS Course Online among host of other web development courses listed on our website.Best wishes with you, wish you happy learning!