
Not-So-Fungible-Weekly #3It’s the third week of doing the NSFW. NFT exploration has continued. Not many major announcements this week but still some interesting discussion. Most progress and conversations recently have been centered around blockchain games and user-generated content. Maybe there’s something new in-store this week? ?Here’s what you may have missed in WEEK 3:?Non-Fungible Major Announcements ?1. Hoard is gearing up to become a marketplace for gaming digital assets by partnering with OmiseGo.Hoard Exchange just recently partnered with OmiseGo to create a decentralized exchange for digital assets. It’ll be interesting to see how they’ll fit in with RareBits and OpenSea.2. Trinity Protocol forms strategic partnerships with Decentraland, Etheremon, and HyperDragons.Trinity has established itself as a scaling solution for NEO using state channels to achieve high throughput. Recently, Trinity has been trying to bring scaling solutions to other public chains.3. Matt Lockyer expanded on his Cryptocomposable proposal this week.Matt Lockyer wrote an introduction to Crypto Composables a few weeks ago. Here’s his follow up on potential use cases for composables which include legal, supply chain, and virtual assets. Using NFTs to makeup the composition of other NFTs is now possible, and in my opinion, will make interoperability between different digital asset platforms more likely.What’s ? in NFT TwitterEthmoji has been a useful tool for non-creators to mint their own NFTs. Are we going to see other DIY non-technical tools to mint NFTs and other digital assets to create a supply-side boom like Chris Burniske mentions?Is it possible to have NFTs take on a life on their own like Jacob Horne thinks? With some anonymous CGI characters coming to life like Lil Miquela it would be likely that users could trade digital assets along with the digital assets/content they produce. What if this leads to a world where NFTs are owned by anonymous CGI characters? It could get interesting.A group of NFTers met on Thursday to talk about NFTs. We had a bunch of interesting topics come up. If you’re interested in joining the next one, feel free to stop by http://xlnt.chat/ and give Matt Condon or myself a message.