
HASHRENTAL LAUNCHES TOKEN PRE-SALELUHN Tokens will be accepted as a payment for hashing power rent. The hashrate is the measuring unit of the processing power of the cryptocurrency networks. Such networks must make intensive mathematical operations for security purposes. HashRental Marketplace for hashrate purchasing and trading.Token Launch means the initial sale to the public of LUHN tokens. LUHN coin corresponds to the price of one hour hashing power rent. Minimum amount of hashing power for 1 LUHN is determined by the current weighted average profit from mining altcoins for each algorithm. After the service is launched all users can exchange LUHN coins on hashing power and get profit.The LUHN Token is one only token to allow holders to enter and exit cryptocurrency mining investments at any time at a cheap, profitable cost through its fast exchange and no having to buy expensive equipment.How is Hashrental different from other ICOs?Working MVP. Hashrental mining system and redirecting system have been tested and launched. $544000 has already been paid to the MVP participants in cryptocurrency.Luhn coin backed by mining power and corresponds to the price of one hour hashing power rent.Guaranteed profit investors 220–500% in June 2018Hashrental is the First Decentralized Hashing Power MARKETPLACE.What will guarantee that LUHN token rate will increase?1 Luhn price on ico, without bonus = $0.04. Minimum profit from mining of one hour with Current approximate price that guarantee you some hashing power is $0.128, thus, token rate will increase up to $0,128 after launching Hashrental system.Global increases in electricity consumption result from an increasing existing hashing power in the world. Miners gets profit for renting hashing power more than from mining on existing common pools. It will be contributed to the popularity HashRental Marketplace and increasing Luhn coin price.The only existing large cryptocurrency mining marketplace has been hacked in late 2017. As a result, the market customers lost $60 million. The incident were occurred because system use of a centralized storage of balances of the system participants. Our solution connects sellers (miners) of hashing power with buyers of hashing power through smart contracts, uses decentralized Escrow. HashRental system provide you the safest services. System reliability will be attract customers and increasing Luhn coin price.