
Reef Coin: Where Preservation of Marine Ecosystem Meets the Blockchain Cryptocurrency TechnologySo, what’s the first thing that pops into your mind when someone mentions “coral reefs”?If you’re either an environmentalist or a scholar in marine biology, perhaps you’ll view coral reefs as these diverse underwater ecosystems that serve as a home to a quarter of Earth’s marine life — similar to how rain forests serve as a home for the plants and wildlife. Or perhaps, if you look at it from a business standpoint, they are nursery grounds for the economic fish species and they can also serve as a source of income to local tourism. And lastly, coral reefs can protect the coastlines from the damaging effects of wave and storms — a very vital purpose in light of the recent years’ climate change that causes extreme weather and weather anomalies. And let’s not forget that in the recent decade, scientists have used coral reefs’ bacteria as treatments for diseases like cancer and HIV, with possibilities of further development and research in years to come.As part of a worldwide industry, coral reefs contribute significantly to global economies. In fact, there are countries whose yearly earnings largely come from activities centered around coral reefs — for example, countries in the Caribbean region. Unfortunately, the number of coral reefs as of late dwindles at an alarming rate. This unprecedented decline — caused by, among other things: irresponsibly destructive fishing practices, pollution coming from nearby areas, immoderate coral mining, and excessive erosion caused by man-made construction along the coasts — poses a significant threat to coral reefs’ functions above. The more portion of coral reefs are gone, the further the damage their absence cause to coastal communities, and if not being addressed soon, it will reach to a point in time where the infrastructure for the coastal residence becomes nothing but a relic — when that happens, the future generation of the world won’t even be able to reap the unmistakable benefits and potentials coral reefs have.Now, what if we told you that there is a cryptocurrency in development that addresses the threats faced by the coral reefs all over the globe, while at the same time providing the safe, reliable means of digital transaction and asset?The solution comes in Reef Coin.Reef Coin is a blockchain cryptocurrency that aims to help the restoration of coral reefs all over the world. It’s a cryptocurrency dedicated to marine restoration effort by revolutionizing and integrating the billion-dollar industries that revolve around coral reefs. As a cryptocurrency, Reef Coin is fully decentralized and built on the premise of providing anonymity, speed, fair mining, and reliability.Basically, Reef Coin is a solution to tackle the threats the marine life and coral reefs face. In addition, the Reef Coin’s network is secured and strengthened by members of the Reef Coin community operating the Reef Nodes (Master node). For every time a block is solved on the Reef Coin’s blockchain, miners and Master node operators will be rewarded with Reef Coin, and as a bonus, the proceeding goes to helping coral reefs.The team behind Reef Coin fervently believes that combining nature and technology is the next logical step towards shaping the better future. And with that said, what makes Reef Coin different from all other cryptocurrencies out there in the market? Let’s dive deeper and take a look at some of the edges Reef Coin possesses.1. Fast TransactionEver heard of Bitcoin? If you happen to be well-versed in conducting transactions using Bitcoins, you’re probably familiar with how unbearably long the transaction can be. It’s most likely happen due to the artificial restriction placed on blockchains, making the blockchains themselves only capable of processing limited transactions per second. If you conduct your transaction in Reef Coin’s network, however, the InstantSend feature will significantly cut down the transaction time — making the whole process takes place almost instantaneously.2. ASIC-ResistanceASIC — short for Application-specific Integrated Circuit — refers to an integrated circuit customized specifically for a particular use, which in this case, is Bitcoin mining. Now, compared to, say, CPU, GPU, or FPGA, ASIC is regarded as far more superior for mining due to its specific built. In the early days of Bitcoins, one could perform mining by using the CPU on every computer, but as of now, because of the increasing number of people mining, the difficulty increments as well — and that’s where the ASIC comes in. Though that may be the case, thanks to the usage of the X16S algorithm, Reef Coins cannot be efficiently mined by miners who are using ASIC. And as a result, it levels the playing field for every miner by not allowing an unfair advantage to take place.3. PrivacyIn this day and age, a good and reliable system to protect privacy becomes paramount. Rest assured, if you’re conducting a transaction with Reef Coin, the PrivateSend feature on the network will allow you to send coins in a safe and private manner. In contrast, Bitcoin’s transactions are not as anonymous as you might think — one can still trace the transactions because the identity of the addresses is the only thing anonymized.4. Reef Coin WalletWith Reef Coin Wallet, you can safely store your Reef Coin and instantly transact with anyone, anywhere. The feature will be available soon, as Reef Coin is currently still in the alpha phase of development.As a cryptocurrency, Reef Coin is lodged in fair distribution, meaning that miners from every corner of the world who are adding to the network are creating the strongest, decentralized network to support the cryptocurrency. With that, thousands of users will be responsible for maintaining the data’s integrity — thus, in turn, minimizing the chance of having a “point of failure.”If you’re interested to be part of this effort, wish to speak with members of the team behind the Reef Coin to find out more, or otherwise, contribute to its development, you can contact us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Telegram — all contact information can be found at https://reefcoin.io/. You can also subscribe to more future info by signing up at the site.