
Safein.com — Digital Identity Management Platform And Blockchain Based Single-On Payment WalletSafein is a decentralized, decentralized single-on-board digital identity payment and identity management platform. The mission of Safein is to create revolutionary solutions for users and businesses. Safein provides a guarantee of convenience, trust, and security of all users who join the ecosystem.The Safein Platform is present to make it easier for users to show online identity when needed while providing full control over personal data to be submitted to service providers. As a payment wallet, Safein can be used to spend, hold and transfer fiat or cryptocurrency currencies. Payments are made instantly and at a low cost. Safein converts your funds into merchant currency automatically, Safein gives users rewards and cashback as loyalty.Safein was created to address some of the pressing issues facing many online services, primarily the e-commerce platform. Behind the rapid growth and development of online business, the industry is, in fact, suffering several issues such as cybersecurity, weak data protection, a monopoly in various sectors and money laundering continues to increase.On the other hand, the user must perform a very complex set of processes to be able to access various online services. Users are required to register, verify, and enter the same data repeatedly on their respective websites. Managing multiple accounts is also not easy, users must memorize different passwords on each site. As a result, 30% -40% of call center support volume is used by users for account recovery and password.Another data show, about 20% of online shoppers cancel orders because they have to register an account first. The KYC process in many companies on average cannot complete the process within 24 hours. The result, preventing potential customers from joining. Faced with the problems above, then created the platform Safein. It provides a fully-verified account to users and complete KYC solutions for businesses.With Safein, users do not need to register on multiple websites. Forget the complicated and time-consuming process of account registration and verification. Sign up and log in to any online service with a single click. You only need one account and one IDE verification to access all websites. Safein will make your online experience more straightforward, more comfortable and enjoyable.Safein understands how vital user privacy is, so it improves the security of your data in cyberspace. You can control how much information is known to the website. Log in anonymously or share data that is only required by the website just. Safein also lets you permanently revoke access to personal data in one click. The KYC process for ICO or to each site runs faster than ever.To attract more users, Safein offers a referral program in exchange for an SFN token. Users will be rewarded every time they invite friends to join the ecosystem; rewards are given when a friend is asked to complete full registration verification. Not only that, the first 1,000,000 users who completed full verification after the launch of the Registration Program were also awarded SFN token.Safein can be accessed via the website, iOS and Android apps. The dashboard is easy to understand, making users more comfortable to control their access rights. Safein guarantees user safety by implementing multi-factor authentication mechanisms. Users can not only monitor their actions and logins but also manage and track logins across various websites. For merchants, Safein provides benefits like free KYC, lower customer support costs, complies with applicable legal regimes, improves conversions and customer trust.Safein offers data protection services under applicable regulations and cheaper user identity verification, ranging from $ 0.30 — $ 0.50. This is because it reuses previously verified data and uses Machine Learning algorithms and AI to check documents. Safein is not just an exciting idea, but it already has a real product. Over 1,000 users are using the Safein app on iOS and Android devices. MVP is already available, with 20,000 more users listed on the website. Safein currently has five partners consisting of UltraPlay, ZET Technologies, ZKLabs, Evergrowth.io, and WinWin Solutions.Safein has an ERC-20 standard utility token named SFN token. ICO SFN token begins on May 31, 2018 — June 30, 2018. The price of 1 SFN token is 0.07 USD, the platform only accepts purchase using Ethereum, and the minimum investment is 0.1 ETH.Rating :https://icobench.com/ico/safeinhttps://icobazaar.com/v2/safeinhttps://www.trackico.io/ico/safein/https://icoholder.com/en/safein-18061To learn more about Safein and how it works, visit online today at Safein.com.Whiter paper : https://www.safein.com/summary/EN/EN_whitepaper_safein.pdf?version=17.1Telegram : https://t.me/safeincom?Bitcointalk user : nguyentuit5a?Bitcointalk url: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1502146Add ETH : 0xBa1ffB8993063cd5402CCB84f4330177D4410fFd