
PARSEC FRONTIERS, changes and updates.Built with the players, owned by the players.Registration:It is recommended for everyone interested in purchasing PARSECS, to register as soon as possible to secure a place in the Crowdsale.Crowdsale:The token sale has been changed from April 27th to May 15, 2018 and will end May 31, 2018. The ship auction was also changed to the same date of May 15th, 14:00 UTC. The changes were made to allow people more time to purchase PARSECS and prepare for the much anticipated “Ship Auction”. The tokens can be purchased here, https://parsecfrontiers.com.I frequent the Parsec Frontiers Telegram channel and they had this to say:“We are excited by the incredible growth of followers the project has seen in the last few weeks, with explorers from around the world signing up to participate. Thank you for your support thus far, we have an amazing community which is a fantastic inspiration to the team.”New Prototype In-game Footage:Very unique, fully customizable ships with variation in value.Sneak peek on Jump-gates:Traveling thru the galaxy at light speeds will cost you PARSECS.“ Jumpgates can be used to travel huge distances. Creating one will require massive amounts of resources, but setting up an automatic toll system with #smartcontracts is one way of getting ROI.”Bounty Program Changes:The bounty program will remain as it was, but they did extend the ending date of the program to match the ending date of the Crowdsale. The Bounty Program will now end May 31, 2018. I found this information on their official Twitter Page here:https://twitter.com/parsecfrontiers?lang=en. This is what they had to say:“ Thank you all bounty hunters — we appreciate your support! We are extending our bounty campaign to last until the end of May, accommodating our crowdsale extension.”I will also leave a link to the bounty program on BitCoinTalk: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3139275.msg32449090#msg32449090.Airdrop:There was a very brief airdrop campaign and it filled within 8 hours. This goes to show how popular Parsec Frontiers truly is.Announcing the Parsec Frontiers Twitter and Telegram Airdrop campaign.“ UPDATE 21:30 CET: Our airdrop reached it’s cap in less than 8 hours! Thank you to everyone!”Well, that is all I have for now on the Changes and Updates to this very unique and excellent MMO 4X Game, PARSEC FRONTIERS. If you are interested in more information on this game, please read my previous Medium Posts:PARSEC FRONTIERS, Virtual Galaxy Blockchain. The MMO Gaming Industry will NEVER be the same……PARSEC FRONTIERS will be unlike any MMO you have ever played before. With the use of the Etherum Blockchain and Smart…medium.comPARSEC FRONTIERS.com, The Game and Business overview.This MMO, strategy-based, 4X game with a virtual economy blockchain is set in the future after Earth’s demise, a…medium.comFor even more information on Parsec Frontiers, please read the white paper here: https://wp.parsecfrontiers.com/whitepaper.pdf. Also visit the official Twitter here: https://twitter.com/parsecfrontiers?lang=en and their official webpage: http://parsecfrontiers.com/Disclaimer: I did not create the concept art in this post. I do have permission to use verbiage and videos to help spread the word about this excellent MMO 4X Game.