
Interview with the DAV teamToday, I have interviewed the DAV team on their ICO and future projects. DAV Foundation is developing a blockchain-based transportation platform.1) What problem are you solving, why do you need the blockchain technology and what are the main pillars that define your company and differentiate you from your competitors?The DAV Foundation’s purpose is to create an open, common network for autonomous vehicles. We use blockchain technology to enforce transparency, and a peer-to-peer operating model with no gatekeepers on the network. We are fundamentally a non-profit open-source foundation seeking to enable access to mobility for everyone. Our closest “competitor” is probably IOTA, but they are broad where we are deep; our only focus is the transport sector. We see IOTA more as an adjacent organization rather than a competing one. We approach our goals from a philosophy of abundance rather than scarcity, and believe in sharing with all.2) What value are you adding to your industry value chain and which are the main obstacles to the success of your solution?The DAV Foundation is building infrastructure, the underlying network that will open vast opportunities to everyone in the autonomous vehicle vertical, and in the interim, manned vehicles as well. You could consider the World Wide Web as a parallel to the DAV network, in what it did for the Internet, making silos such as AOL and Compuserve irrelevant and enabling virtually limitless opportunities for development and business. Our main challenge is adoption, but this will inexorably crumble in the face of advances made by both blockchain and autonomous vehicle technologies.3) Why did you decide to launch an ICO and why do you need a public Token Sale?The purpose of our token sale is to raise funding for the Foundation’s short- and mid-term goals. We decided to offer a public component to our token sale as we believe DAV’s success relies heavily on individual users and entrepreneurs, not just institutions and larger enterprises.4) How does your token function within the platform and why is it needed? How did you decide the total supply and distribution among stakeholders?Technically speaking, DAV tokens are essential for a truly decentralized transportation marketplace. The tokens are transferred using smart mission contracts. These contracts are automatically enforced, so the correct number of tokens is paid to the vehicle owner, to the service provider, and to the insurer, at the right time, with an agreed upon process to handle potential disputes. Economically speaking, the DAV token is needed for incentivising platform development, participation, and investment early on. Early AV owners and service providers using DAV will benefit from historically low barriers to market entry (enabled by the DAV platform), along with operational optimization. As AV transportation matures and grows, so will the utility of the token and it’s value.The total supply was decided after a great deal of consideration and examining the crypto landscape. We decided on our token metrics less than a month away from the launch of our crowd sale as we recognize how much crypto can shift in a relatively short period of time. The numbers we arrived at reflect the conditions of the crypto sector and treats every contributor to our token sale as equitably as we could possibly manage.5) Where do you see the value of your token in the medium to long term and the ultimate benefit for the token holders?The DAV Foundation is a non-profit technology foundation, and as such we don’t speculate or comment on market-making or secondary markets. We anticipate that the DAV token will be heavily utilized when the DAV network achieves traction and we see mass adoption.6) Thinking about the future, what are your plans after ending the ICO? Are you afraid that the volatility of the cryptocurrency market might affect the economy of your project in any way?The real work starts at the Foundation after the token sale is completed. We have to continue and ramp up R&D, build out infrastructure, consolidate alliances and partnerships, and hit our milestones. The volatility question is always on our minds. We have the benefit of expert advice from crypto-economists and have developed a financial strategy to help hedge against dips so that we can maximize the resources we deploy in our journey to our goal.