
More Than Just A Game: Forever Has FallenNowadays, the game industry is growing more and more. For example, the size of the gaming market in Turkey has exceeded $ 750 million in 2017. 2018 estimates will grow by 15 percent to $ 880 million. Forever Has Fallen, who entered the gaming industry with a different technology, is offering a blockchain-based game. It has a story flow of content from various platforms, such as streaming content, web-based content, email, mobile app etc. The currency in the Forever Has Fallen game is Forever Coin. Forever coin is a token. You can earn cryptocurrency from the game with the token created to finance the Forever Has Fallen. Thanks to the Forever Has Fallen game, the blockchain network will be moved to a video game for the first time. Forever Has Fallen will have taken the first steps in a significant development in the gaming industry.Play video game with BlockchainThere were a few web browser games that were playing on the blockchain network. But Forever Has Fallen is a video game that uses the blockchain infrastructure. The game’s data will be on the blockchain network. The progress of the player, the items for the game and the achievements will be also recorded on the blockchain network. But this registration will be done with the smart contracts in the blockchain. Also, those who play the game will win the Forever Coin token.Online and offline technologyIn Forever Has Fallen you can play both online and offline. One of the purposes of the game is to provide additional income for everyone playing the game. When you play online, Forever Coin will work and players will be rewarded with Forever Coin when they complete their tasks. Players will also be able to use Forever Coin to trade. An item in the game will be able to trade with Forever Coin. If they want, the players can convert Forever Coin they earn into cryptocurrency on the stock exchange. Players will be able to use their other cryptocurrency for in-game trading.About Forever Has FallenThey have been a great experiment in the game industry.The people on the team previously worked in well-established companies such as Sony, Warner Bros, LEGO, Disney and Microsoft.The game has high quality visual and technical infrastructure.35% of tokens have been sold.They have the budget to make their own tokens spending and do not trust the speculations.They target 10 million players and a market value of $ 1 billion.Advantages of Forever Has FallenForever Has Fallen uses blockchain and transmedia system.Forever Has Fallen’s token, Forever coin, will trade on the stock exchange. At this point, you can easily make money from the game.In the Forever Has Fallen game you can trade items using Forever coin.You can play the game online and offline.The game will also be a mobile application.You will earn additional income through the game.You can send messages to any player in the game. So the game will also have a social media system.ResultForever Has Fallen will be a major breakthrough in the game industry. I think it will get a lot of interest because the game money is a cryptocurrency. Thanks to the game you will earn additional income easily. I would definitely recommend you to read their work, whitepaper and litepaper.Website: https://www.foreverhasfallen.comE-mail: tokensale@foreverhasfallen.comYoutube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCwigcmXAGCQOARTCuT9KbEATwitter: https://twitter.com/fhfcommunityTelegram: https://t.me/foreverhasfallenFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/foreverhasfallen