
On the search for the dialectic of privacyToday nopara73 opened a brainstorming exercise to find the best wording to use in our bitcoin wallet UI, he started it with a strong statement:Privacy in Bitcoin is poised with criminal terminology, but privacy should not only be the privilege of criminals.So true. Many people accept that privacy is for criminals only, in fact that’s what they mean when they say “I don’t need privacy because I have nothing to hide.” There is a whole machinery working to achieve that people reject their right to privacy otherwise you have something (dirty) to hide.To make this even worse many times we play with words naïvely, naming our tools as Dark Bitcoin, Hidden Transaction, Killer Mixer, Anonymizer and similar. It doesn’t matter how fanny or cool they sound, it doesn’t help.The Bitcoin enemies arsenalBitcoin enemies use a well-articulated and highly effective arsenal of concepts to attack it. They can say, without having even to stop for a second to think how to build the phrase, that Bitcoin is an “Anonymous payment network for facilitating crime, financing terrorism, enabling child pornography and drug dealing.” Statements like the previous one are precooked, one of the many in the enemies’ ready-to-use gunset.Wording is important only if it helps us to change the way we think about something. Wording something should help us to draw a different picture in our mind in the same way that words like piracy tried to make us think we were attacking and robbing ships at sea when we simply were downloading a Luis Miguel song in mp3 file.Bitcoin’s enemies are freedom enemies, speech freedom enemies. Bitcoin’s enemies are right to privacy enemies. They have an arsenal. Do we have one?Our arsenalSo, going back to Bitcoin privacy. What we want to do is not just to protect people’s privacy and our fundamental rights, as the right to speech, but go beyond that enforcing it. How? Doing as much as the state of the art allow us, preventing data collection techniques.It is important highlighting that we are working to enforce protection of our right to speech, association and privacy by preventing data collection, and its analysis, through cryptography technology.In order to pass across the enemies’ mine field of prebuilt dialectic weapons we could start following simple rules about how we communicate our ideas with others. For example, in the context of the privacy oriented Wasabi Wallet:We could completely avoid words with negative connotations which could suggest we want to do wrong in any way such as: hiding, confusing, mixing, de-linking. It doesn’t matter if technically speaking that’s how we achieve privacy.We could avoid technical associated words, not only for computer science, such as fungibility, blinding, stealth, incognito mode.We could avoid negative words such as disabling, disassociating, unliking, untraceable/untrackeable and others, instead we could use the positive word.Preventing coins discriminationFungibility is highly technical and misused words we shouldn’t use so often, instead think about coins discrimination. So, if someone can discriminate some coins from others then, that person can give a different treatment to the coins owners. Why should a bitcoiner know the history of every single coin he receives? Terms such as “preventing coins discrimination” or “enabling coins equal treatment” should be preferable over “disabling data collection” and “achieving better fungibility”Enabling free speech and associationWe are able to create, help and communicate our preferences, even love, with money. It is important that nobody have the power to disable our right to express what we want to say. We express ourself sending coins. How could we protect that right without preventing coin discrimination?Censorship resistanceThe idea that transactions cannot be stopped or censored gives us the false sensation that Bitcoin is a censorship resistant network however, this is true only if coins (and their owners) cannot be distinguished.While the developers continue building solutions for protecting people’s privacy rights with tech, as we do with Wasabi Wallet, it is also important, probably even more important, that all prepare a bit more in this field of wording things.