
Beluga Pay (BBI) Tokensale RecapBeluga Pay’s iOS and Android merchant app launched this month in Mexico. Global app releases coming soon.We are excited to announce that earlier this month we concluded Beluga Pay’s tokensale. We sold over 10,756,712 BBI tokens and raised over $5M USD.As described in the whitepaper, we recently burnt 29,243,288 tokens remaining in the ICO pool thus reducing the total supply to 60.7M BBI.Details of this can be found by viewing our contract address on Etherscan:https://etherscan.io/token/0x37d40510a2f5bc98aa7a0f7bf4b3453bcfb90ac1The current circulating supply is 10,756,712. The remaining tokens are locked for a minimum of 6 months.Additional ExchangesWe currently have additional exchanges that are ready to go in the pipeline and are waiting on additional legal work in order to go live. We expect this to happen within the next 30 days.Beluga Pay ProductsIn the last month we have launched the Beluga Pay app into the iOS and Android App Stores. The first versions of the apps are currently only available in Mexico, however, on the upcoming release we will expose more functionality and allow users from all over the world to download.Currently users in Mexico can use Beluga Pay to:· Create a merchant profile· Accept VISA/Mastercard payments· Accept ETH· Accept signatures from customers and issue receiptsWe expect our application to be available globally within the next 90 days.As described in the whitepaper, in order for the credit and debit card processing to occur we will need local banking partners for merchant deposits. However, in the upcoming global release of our mobile applications merchants worldwide will be able to use the cryptocurrency functionality to accept payments. We currently have a pipeline of potential banking partners in Africa, South America and Europe who would enable more of Beluga Pay’s products worldwide.Top 10 Pre-Sale Gold Card Reward WinnersIf the last digits of your funding address is listed below please contact support@belugapay.com to claim your reward.…Xm6t… 5YUN… 6367… D21e… e6be… 8c1E… dF81… B495… 7EBF…Pwc2BBI Bounty RewardsFinally, we wanted to thank the thousands of people that joined us in the Beluga Pay bounty campaigns during the tokensale. We are very grateful and are excited to work with each and every one of you in the near future.The Beluga Pay bounties and referrals will have an upcoming post shortly with more details on rewards.We intend to launch more bounty programs in conjunction with the global release of our apps.Please stay tuned by followingOur official Twitter account @belugapayOur official Telegram group: https://t.me/belugapay/