
Pareto Network: ReviewAn interesting platform for valuable and actionable cryptocurrency IntelSince the advent of cryptocurrencies in 2009, one noticeable aspect of these assets is their highly unstable nature. This has led to a dilemma among the investors before they consider cryptocurrencies to be the next major sector of investments.The plethora of cryptocurrencies available in the current market doesn’t help the cause either. The dilemma is mostly regarding the feasibility of the cryptocurrencies. The next big hurdle would be in analyzing the return on investment. You would need thorough analysis so that your investment decisions aren’t influenced by rumors and FUDs. Also, you have to stay firm throughout the pumps and dumps which is quite rampant in the world of cryptocurrencies. Here is a list of pointers you must lookout for,The project aim and deliverablesThe proposed structure of decentralized marketExpected growth of token valueDesign for new economic patterns and incentivesLong-term feasibility of that specific cryptocurrency.These parameters are something which cannot be predicted by using simple tools as in the case of Forex predictions. Ultimately, all this leads to a challenge for investors as to whether they should invest in digital currencies or not.The large number of cryptocurrencies already present in the world today add to this problem. In such scenarios, even multiple resources on cryptocurrency investment like YouTube channels, ICO websites, research works, forums, etc. fail to help you. The Pareto network aims to tackle this problem by providing intelligent data centric solutions.The Pareto NetworkTo tackle and solve the above-discussed investment problems, Pareto Network comes to your aid. The Pareto Network does this by introducing to the public all the plausible information with regards to the loopholes in the cryptocurrency markets. This is done by providing actionable insights based on thorough research. The network combines collective research and AI tools to come up with a powerful service.Pareto Network makes use of collective investment actions and then provides intelligent investment calls based on their unique waterfall effect ranking system. Pareto Network is the thought leader in crypto research, crypto valuation, and crypto investment, and this is apparent when compared to other websites performing similar functionalitiesThis, in turn, leads to potential investors developing an understanding of the market. Further, investors can benefit by driving their profits to large figures.How does the Pareto Network function?The answer to this question has been explained in the following points:a. Actionable investing intel:First of all, the content creators of Pareto Network formulate information which might aid the investors willing to invest in the cryptocurrency market. The content uploaded on the Pareto Network may be either analyst reports, trading signals, code vulnerability or security assessments.b. Intel distribution to Investors:The Pareto Network distributes the information created by content creators after curating it. You have to own Pareto tokens in order to join the network and receive actionable insights from the content creators. The manner in which this information will be presented to the potential investors is determined using an algorithm.The output obtained after running this algorithm is called as the ‘Information Waterfall.’ I will be discussing this phenomenon in the upcoming sections. In short, if a person is ranked higher on the waterfall, he will have the opportunity to receive profitable investment information first in comparison to those placed lower in rank. The investor can then free to take a call based on the information received.c. Content creators rewarded:Depending upon the quality of content provided, the creators are rewarded by the Pareto Network. This is because their content helped the investors to invest correctly and make profits. In reward, they are given Pareto tokens, which they can further sell on other platforms or exchanges to earn profits.This is the work flow of Pareto network, ensuring that both the content creators as well as the investors profit through its platform.The ‘Waterfall Effect’ and Ranking:As mentioned above, the content is created by individual, groups or companies, which is further curated and shared with potential investors. The investors then invest their money in digital currencies according to the information shared. The manner in which the information is shared is decided by an algorithm, and the ranking of investors is decided by a phenomenon called as the ‘Waterfall effect.’Therefore, a person ranked higher in the Waterfall will get access to the information earlier than the one ranked lower. This way, the ‘Waterfall effect’ encourages its users to invest more and earn more profits through their platform.How are Investors and Content Creators benefited?Now, the manner in which investors are ranked is decided by how much Pareto tokens they have given as reward to the content creators. This is the basic logic of the algorithm used by Pareto Network. Let me explain this with a simple example.If a content creator asks 1,000 tokens but the investor pays 100 (i.e., 10%) he will move up the ranks faster than when the content creator asks 1,000,000 tokens and he rewards 10,000 tokens (i.e., 1%). However, I must say the reality is a little more complex because the number of tokens held and spend on information is also a major variable. Nevertheless, this system ensures that only the best of information is paid the right amount of money through the tokens.The same thing follows with content creators as well. If the potential investor rewards the content creator the reward which they demand, then the ranking of the content creator will move more quickly up the waterfall than the one who gets partially rewarded by the Pareto user.This procedure is repeated, and the ranking of content creators and investors is reshuffled after mining of a specific number of blocks. This helps both the investors as well as content creators to benefit more in the future.How does Pareto Network succeed?Pareto Network has been successful in creating a safe and profitable environment in the cryptocurrency world. This environment has improved the efficiency and methods through which information is produced and further distributed to the potential investors present on the Pareto Network.The financial environment of cryptocurrency trading has been running successfully mostly because of the ‘Waterfall effect,’ which allows users to earn profits in a unique yet simple manner. And the reshuffling of the ranking order periodically gives fair opportunities to all the users on Pareto Network to earn quick and early profits over time.Closing thoughtsThe investment techniques promoted by the Pareto network has caused rationalization of the cryptocurrency market, improving the accuracy in predicting the future course of the markets. And the best part is, the information which benefits the traders comes from the people themselves!Such kind of disruptive concepts in the world of cryptocurrency has completely revolutionized the manner in which trading is done. This quality holds in itself the capability to achieve exponential growth in near future, leading to the growth of Pareto Network, its content creators as well as the Pareto Network users at large.This also takes the Pareto Network a step closer to the vision envisaged by its founder, Vilfredo Pareto, who believed in the fact that even small fraction of money invested holds the potential to earn majority of the positive results.