
Blockchain impacts on digital marketing industryThe blockchain, the technology behind cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin, has the potential to disrupt various industries. It is a decentralized and shared digital ledger that continuously records lists of transactions in a peer-to-peer network.Change the status quoIn digital marketing industry, Google and Facebook accounted for 73% of all US digital advertising by providing a centralized platform for advertisers and publishers (CNBC, 2017). The addition of the blockchain technology enables advertisers and publishers to buy and sell ads with fewer intermediaries, hence, it offers powerful alternatives to the duopoly of Google and Facebook.The recent Facebook’s scandal about data protection also brings into question the transparency of these centralized advertising platforms (Cadwalladr and Graham-Harrison, 2018). The blockchain technology can potentially solve this issue as it adds another layer of security to consumer data and improves transparency for ads buyers.Eliminate the digital marketing middlemanOne of the reasons a website might choose to display Google banner ads on their site as opposed to organically finding advertisers is because Google is a source of trust. Google also handles the processing of transactions so that the website owner is paid fairly for clicks generated on the advertiser’s ad.In this case, Google is essentially the middleman between the advertiser and the website owner. For that reason, they take a cut of the profits. Blockchain can potential change this traditional approach to buying-selling ads.Website owners wouldn’t have to go through the Google Display Network to find advertisers because each user would already be validated and verified. The advertiser would know that they’re paying for genuine clicks, and the site owner can trust that the amount they’re being paid is fair. There wouldn’t be any need for Google (or Facebook, or any other intermediary).Build trust with transparencyAnother value proposition of blockchain is the level to which everything is documented and verified. For example, a customer could get a “behind-the-scenes” look of a retailer’s supply chain — and find out exactly how the product was made. The transparency allows the consumer to discover whether a company is trustworthy about their claims or not.Companies gain trust through transparency, which blockchain marketing can provide in a way that other tactics cannot offer.