
Charles Laverty In Trouble With FINRAAccording to a recent Disciplinary Proceeding with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), former TCFG Wealth Management broker Charles Laverty allegedly borrowed $1,350,000 from an elderly married couple. Laverty allegedly concealed the loans from his firm and falsely stated on a questionnaire that he did not borrow money from customers. This is against securities laws and internal firm rules. He also was accused of failing to disclose an unsatisfied judgment and federal tax lien. Also according to the FINRA document, Charles Laverty allegedly borrowed money from a customer when he was registered with Oppenheimer, and the firm suspended him for this alleged misconduct.Charles A. Laverty was previously registered with Citigroup Global Markets in Newport Beach, California from March 2005 until June 2007, Morgan Stanley in Irvine, California from June 2007 until January 2008, Oppenheimer & Co. in Newport Beach, California from January 2008 until May 2010, UBS in Indian Wells, California from May 2010 until November 2011, Oppenheimer in Newport Beach from November 2011 until March 2014, Calton & Associates in Palm Desert, California from March 2014 until February 2015 and TCFG Wealth Management in Newport Beach from February 2015 until October 2015. He has three customer disputes against him, alleging failure to follow instructions, recommending unsuitable investments, misrepresentations of risk involving investments, unsuitable investment strategies and improperly soliciting loans from clients. He has four regulatory matters, one investigation, one employment separation after allegations, and four criminal disputes against him. This is all according to his online, FINRA BrokerCheck report. He is not currently registered as a broker and has been suspended from the industry.Please call us today if you suffered losses with Charles Laverty. We may be able to help you bring a claim against his former firm in the FINRA arbitration forum on a contingency fee basis. Attorneys are standing by. The call is free with no obligation.