
How Blockchain Can Help Your Doc Get The Right Data At The Right TimePhoto by rawpixel.com on UnsplashThe healthcare ecosystem is ripe for innovation, and many national health-centered organizations such as HIMSS are looking to tech to solve some of healthcare’s main problems. Blockchain is no longer a stranger to the chief information officers around the world, and healthcare providers are beginning to pilot and deploy these technologies.However, it is always in everyone’s best interest to stay sane among all of the hype. I would like to highlight a healthcare use case that I find particularly interesting. I remain skeptical that we will see leaps and bounds within the next couple of years, but I am hopeful that with the right amount of courage and relentlessness, there are going to be some clear wins for the patient and the doctor.The Right Info At The Right TimeFinding ways to effectively and safely share patient and population information is evermore important. For example, chronic disease is on the rise, and this puts a lot of pressure on healthcare providers to understand the full picture of patient’s in order to provide the best care.The full picture means the doctor has the right information at the right time.It does the patient no good if providers have to run redundant tests and poke the patient for more blood.How Could We Do it?From the healthcare provider’s side, there are many ways to share information. One can share information within the organization — between floors, staff, teams, and other hospitals underneath the same brand. Organizations can share information about patients with other hospitals to allow for disparate pieces of a patient’s care profile to come together seamlessly. Also, one can imagine hospitals sharing information with insurance companies, researchers, and possibly the public in some fashion.But sharing information is not easy. State and national health information exchanges face many challenges. Hospitals may not want to opt-in to join a consortium because they don’t trust other hospitals with their data. There are privacy problems when sharing patient’s potentially identifiable information that centrally stored. It can be a big mess.What’s in it for the patients?data governance has lots of potential upside as well. Personal health information and genetic data can be information that stays in the hands of the people. This is critical for maintaining control and autonomy over one’s information instead of having third-parties hold it for you. When this transfer of power occurs, we may see people like you and me become more empowered and get to decide what to do with their data. Empowerment can mean deciding who to share the data with, when, and under what constraints or conditions.“Long colorful lines of code on a computer screen” by Markus Spiske on UnsplashSolving Trust Issues With TechOf course there are trust issues and barriers when getting individuals and organizations who don’t know each other to share information. However, it is only a matter of time until the proof of concepts that work emerge out of the murky landscape of information exchange.That’s where blockchain comes in. Blockchain, the immutable, distributed ledger can securely store data. This data can be most things imaginable — health records, images, just plain numbers and characters. This data can be protected by the patients, and it can be queried by only a select group of people. The number of permutations and combinations of who can access what is large.Blockchain can solve the issue of trust through an agreement mechanism that the blockchain enables. This would improve interoperability between healthcare organizations, research institutions, patients and others. Moreover, the idea of smart contracts and automating some of the business processes that primarily occur on paper nowadays will remove some of the frictions that occur when a patient tries to schedule an appointment, share their insurance, or access their medical records.Fixing The Nitty-GrittyThat all sounds nice and dandy, but there are some stark realities that need to be ironed out. These limitations to the speed at which the blockchain technology is adopted are similar to the crypto industry itself. For example, government regulations and developers will need to work together to work out the implications and mechanism of changing information on the blockchain if needed. Moreover, node computation and processing resources is a huge topic that would apply to this area as well. In these cases, who will be the miners? Will there be mining pools? If there are tokens, how does the currency stay stable?Most importantly, organizations need to ask themselves honest questions if they even need a blockchain network or are they just interested to stay on the cutting edge. Carefully defining the problem and the use case solution is one of the first elements for successful implementation.I believe before any health information exchange puts thousands, tens of thousands and millions of people’s data on the blockchain, these types of nitty-gritty details needs to be fully understood and taken care of.