
Mike’s weekend message to QUOINE community (April 28th, 2018)Dear QUOINERs I hope you are having a wonderful weekend.I just came back from the Philippines sharing my thoughts on the future of cryptocurrency industry and our LIQUID platform to one of the largest and progressive banks in the Philippines. (Sopnendu from MAS was there as well)I can see the Philippines becoming one of the largest and most active countries in South East Asia in terms of crypto tokens and ICOs.Please Kindly find my weekly update below.1. Token ListingsWe had 3 token listings this week:FintruX (FTX): FintruX Network is a blockchain based online ecosystem connecting borrowers, lenders, and rated service agencies. FintruX facilitates marketplace lending in a true peer-to-peer network to ease the cash-flow issues of small businesses and startups.Steemit: https://bit.ly/2HQNOxb Medium: https://bit.ly/2JgCzh7FUSION (FSN): FSN is a public blockchain devoting itself to creating an inclusive cryptofinancial platform by providing cross-chain, cross-organization, and cross-datasource smart contracts.Steemit: https://bit.ly/2HkHnp4 Medium: https://bit.ly/2F70uwUThe Proxeus Token (XES) is the utility token for Proxeus, the Wordpress for blockchain applications. Proxeus is used to design, publish and distribute workflows and documents which are registered on smart contracts.Medium: http://bit.ly/2KalnLr Steemit: https://bit.ly/2JtAFK2For May Week 1 on QRYPTOS, we are planning on listing 1 token:Zebi Coin is a ERC20 based utility token that safeguards data against hacking and tampering, while obtaining consent from individuals.Learn more at: https://www.zebi.io/2. Product DevelopmentLast week, in preparation for the launch of LIQUID Internal World Book beta, we performed a system upgrade on QUOINEX. As you already know, QRYPTOS and QUOINEX will merge to become one immersive, all-in-one platform: LIQUID. There will be a number of upgrades and maintenance tasks on our exchanges in the near future to enable this. We appreciate your understanding and support, and apologize for any inconvenience caused.ICO Mission ControlFrom week 04-May, QUOINE will be launching the beta version of our ground breaking ICO Mission Control platform. This will be integrated into the unified LIQUID Platform after Beta.If ICO’s have disrupted the IPO, QUOINE’s Mission Control platform will disrupt the way ICOs are conducted. We are bringing transparency, flexibility, and making it easier for blockchain innovators and investors to meet in a secure and transparent manner. ICO Mission Control platform is a key pillar in QUOINE’s mission to bring crypto to the mainstream and we could not be more excited about what is to come.Stay tuned for more details over the next couple of weeks where we will share videos on the ICO Mission Control, discuss our strategic partnerships, how we are making the platform the most secure and user friendly in the industry & announce the launch of the first batch of ICOs to be conducted on ICO Mission Control.3. Marketing / Community3.1. Holidays and Events:This week and early next week, both Tokyo Office and Vietnam Office will be closed for operations for the following public holidays.Vietnam holidays:Wednesday Apr 25th, 2018: Vietnamese Kings’ Commemoration Day Monday April 30th, 2018: Liberation Day/Reunification DayTuesday May 1st, 2018: International Labor DayJapan holidays: Monday April 30th, 2018: Showa Day May 3rd, 2018: Constitution Memorial DayMay 4th, 2018: Greenery DayWithdrawals will not be processed on these days.We will resume normal business hours after the holidays.Next week, our VP of Marketing Katherine Ng will be presenting at the INSEAD Event on May 3rd on how to conduct a successful ICO. The event is organized by Future FinTech and hosted by the INSEAD Alumni Association. Learn more at https://www.insead.edu/master-programmes/mba/events3.2. Community:Important Notice : Hacker Alert:QUOINERs, we have been seeing many creative ways scammers pretend to be QUOINE support and admins in order to get you to hand over your personal information. There are multiple twitter profiles, airdrop campaigns and mobile apps out there that are fake. Please be vigilant and think twice before responding to any request for personal information or to send funds. Our CMs will never ask you to send funds for any issue or matter. Admins will also never initiate direct message contact with you.At QUOINE, we are doing our best to keep QUOINERs safe. Last week our Senior VP of Operations Seth Melamed wrote a blog post on the Iron Shield security protocols. Please check it out on our blogs. Medium: http://bit.ly/2JjSISJ Steemit: http://bit.ly/2HJc1aTQASH Rewards Program:For the month of April, QASH Rewards Program welcomes all written articles under the theme of: “The launch of the LIQUID platform and World Book Beta”. Since the beginning of April, we have received 1470 submissions for Twitter retweets and 67 articles under the written content category. Good articles will be featured in our newsletter and on Telegram. We will summarize your submissions and pay out QASH Rewards for contributors after the holiday.IMPORTANT: Please note that all submissions must adhere to our guidelines for UTM tracking links so that your articles are qualified for QASH Rewards and we can track any traffic that comes from your articles: https://bit.ly/2pWB6oM Learn more on our Steemit and Medium blog posts:Steemit: https://bit.ly/2H6NgTB Medium: https://bit.ly/2GsGu9yInstagramI’m very excited to announce that QUOINE is now on Instagram at https://www.instagram.com/quoine.sg. Please follow us to be in on what the people of QUOINE are up to as we work towards the mission of bringing liquidity to the crypto space.TelegramLast week, our community has reached 17,000 QUOINERS. I am very proud of the journey we have gone through together and I am looking forward to growing our community to 100,000 QUOINERS by the end of 2018. Thank you so much for your support!4. Operations / Customer Support4.1. Operations:Batch Overflow bugThis week there was a major issue impacting a group of ERC-20 token smart contracts. A vulnerability of the smart contract allowed for someone to exploit a integer overflow bug and in effect create tokens of the impacted smart contract “out of thin air.” The 2 vulnerabilities in the smart contract code were a batchOverFlow and ProxyTransfer. Globally roughly 9 ERC-20 tokens were identified as subject to this vulnerability. QUOINE Technology and Operations did a thorough check of all ERC-20 tokens listed on our exchange platforms and confirmed none of the tokens were vulnerable to this hack. The results were cross checked by an external blockchain security expert. Whilst we we regret having to temporarily halt trading, deposits, and withdrawals of ERC-20 tokens, the extraordinary measures were required in order to ensure the safety of client assets and soundness of the exchange in the face of these vulnerabilities. Its also worthwhile to point out the “larger” crypto currency exchanges that were listing the tokens impacted by the quality tokens impacted by this bug. The bug was an obvious one and indicates a relatively poorly designed and testing of the smart contract. At QUOINE, we choose our partners & projects carefully and we encourage our colleagues in the industry to do the sameIron ShieldThis week we published a detailed article describing the series of security & efficiency measures QUOINE has undertaken with our “Iron Shield” program: https://medium.com/@shessenauer/batch-overflow-bug-on-ethereum-erc20-token-contracts-and-safemath-f9ebcc1374344.2. Customer Support:On customer support tickets, we solved 16,587 tickets in Manila and 2,570 tickets in Vietnam this week.The Ave Ticket Handling Time is now down to 4.9 hours wit satisfaction rating at 88%.Thats all for this week.Please have a wonderful weekend.Mike Kayamori