
Distributed Systems for the Gamer (Part 1)I’m sure it’s been far too long for anyone when it comes to us posting on our blog here at Gamer Ammo, but we believe it’s worth it. We’ve been working hard day in and day out on developing Clutchat. We’ve got a full lineup for our alpha testing, which is going on now, and we’re building out our beta testing group as we speak. We’ve yet to implement the blockchain technology, but the distributed systems we’ve set in place thus far are working great and the word on the streets is that our product ain’t half bad.When thinking about distributed systems, a lot of people are worried most about advancing the technology at high speed rates. This is fine, but for the end user things need to be introduced at a much slower rate than that. Which is why we’ve taken a stepwise approach to introducing different distributed systems. The first that we are tackling is simply the idea of being on a distributed system. What does this mean for gaming? What does it mean for the gamer? What are future implications? What are the necessary implementations going forward to best be open to change? These are all questions that we ask ourselves as we move forward building for the gamer. I’ll be doing a series going over each aspect of this for the gamer to get a sense of what’s going on under the hood. First and foremost, the most important aspect (especially in light of recent news).User DataThis is probably one of the most crucial aspects of the distributed system for the gamer. How do we store their data and how are we securing it? For the most part it’s no different than how things are usually done. We will be using a system much like what traditional servers use but we’ll be encrypting things along the way. Our intentions is to utilize the power of decentralized technologies to protect our users data to such an extent that the issues of the recent news I’ve pointed out above are a thing of the past.Many issues arise when dealing with data, from the corporate side of things, the biggest being profitability. The whole reason many companies are so enamored by user data is that it’s their entire profit model. They spend their entire time selling the way that they manipulate your user data to provide you the best advertisements, which to advertisers means that they are receiving the best bang for their buck when they provide the company their money to advertise to you. With us however, your user data is encrypted, not only can the advertisers not profit from your individual data, but neither do we.We believe in a good honest system of profitability. We plan to roll out an online store and maximize the usability of your Gamerammo Tokens so that you’ll want to keep earning them to help build up your own gaming skills. We’ll profit from these sales and getting things more available to your in the store. We’ll be providing the access to coaching services. Gamers will have access to other gamers to help them with coaching on a particular game, getting paid by each other for these services, in-which, we will take a small portion of the proceeds from this.It is a key part of our identity that we try to best explain to you that targeted advertising, through us, is a thing of the past. It was never necessary from the beginning and it’s not going to be moving forward. We want the platforms you use socially to be something that you can feel free of the tyrannical hold on your data, and using decentralized technologies is the future of doing so. We hope you’ll enjoy a service free of the omnipresent eye, a service best made for the gamer to shine.