
EQUI — Invest easily and freely!The modern market is one of many systems and processes, participation in which takes several parties at once. The market sets prices, markets facilitate the diffusion of various resources, thereby contributing to increased trade in all sectors. The types of private capital and form of financing include venture capital, which is used to develop small firms with high potential. The funds are invested in the early stages of the company’s existence, in exchange for shares or the share of the property. Capitalists naturally take a particular risk, spending their money in start-ups, which are based more often on innovative technologies.The new EQUI project is a web platform that is based on the already popular blockchain Ethereum technology. EQUI has united in itself an investment platform and a new cryptocurrency. The project enables venture capital to enter the new market, with the help of tokens, investors can purchase shares in new companies and make a profit from their investments. Technologies of a new generation, allow to revolutionize markets, the EQUI team will provide support and protection of innovators, provide necessary business information, analysis, recommendations for successful promotion of enterprises.How does it work?The acquisition of a share in the projects will be carried out through EQUI tokens. The income will be distributed to investors after the project is completed. The developed unique structure provides a reward for each EQUI owner. Investors that have obligations will receive 70% of the profits. The platform uses the technologies of our generation, investment opportunities that will revolutionize the market. On the EQUI platform, hand-selected companies will be located, which will be selected by a team of venture capitalists.Advantages of EQUI for participantsInvestors on the platform receive a flexible level of investment, which depends on the investor’s interest in each project separately70% of the received nailed from the project, will be distributed among investorsOwners can store their tokens on the EQUI platform and receive a 5% profit from projects, without participationTraders can withdraw their EQUI tokens from the platform and earn revenue only if the cost of tokens increasesA team of specialists who are very well versed in this direction will bring the project to the highest level in a short period. Specialists from different industries, with many years of experience and knowledge, create a platform that will be comfortable and profitable for all participants.Anyone can invest their funds for the development of a promising project. There are no restrictions on investments, thanks to this, each author of the project has a chance to make a profit. The team of experts will evaluate each project according to specific criteria: scalability, the volume of potential profit, the use of blockchain technology.Let’s look at the essential details of the ICO- The preliminary sale will begin on May 15, 2018, and the main selling will last from June 1 to June 30- The price of the token is $ 0.50- The number of EQUI is 250,000,000 tokens- The public sale of tokens is distributed 65%, the acquisition of EQUI is possible due to Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoins.How to participate in the pre-sale? To do this, you need to join the whitelist, you need to go to the link: https://www.equi.capital/#main. Next, you need to specify your real mail, and that’s it.CONCLUSIONEQUI provides an opportunity for owners to receive funds for their project from investors around the world, this will ensure a lower level of competition and significantly increase the likelihood of success, as well as the number of investors. Investing their funds in the project, investors are guaranteed to profit.EQUI provides favorable conditions for each participant, and in my opinion, the project will quickly develop and attract a large number of users to its platform.If you share my opinion and the project became interesting to you, study it in more detail and take part in ICO. I hope this article was interesting to you, write in the comments what do you think about this project or what questions do you have !?You can find detailed information on the following links:Official websiteWhitepaperBitcointalk ANN ThreadBitcointalk Bounty ThreadTelegramTwitterFacebookBitcointalk Username: CapnBDL