
AFRICUNIA: THE REVOLUTION OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGYAFCASH is the digital coin that will be created by AFRICUNIA BANK. It is important to know that AFCASH would not just be a CryptoCurrency, rather it will create an Ecosystem that will help bridge the gap between the fiat and the crypto universes and enable users globally, but especially in Africa, to help themselves. The development of AFCASH platform on top of a highly secure core Blockchain (using APCA), integrating it with the major decentralized technologies and creating use cases to demonstrate its ability in the financial services sector, it will help bring the mainstream currencies into the crypto universe. It will also unify all transactional aspects that are usually handled using the fiat currencies and provide multiple crypto-related services in one place. https://africunia.com. Blockchain Technology facilitates fast and low-cost transactions that are not controlled by any centralized source. While the economic gains of the current Blockchain Technology are without doubt indisputable, there are still challenges that must be addressed. These hurdles can be looked at from three perspectives: correctness, consensus, and utility. To address the problems of correctness, consensus, and utility, the proposed algorithm will apply the “Byzantine Generals Problem” that has already been explored to solve a myriad of computing problems. Much research has been done on protocols that achieve consensus in the face of the Byzantine errors. But much of the protocols have not fully addressed the problems of correctness, consensus, and utility. https://africunia.com. Some people relish to build parallels between ICOs and the IPOs of the modern technological era. But, this analogy is incongruent — the quandary being that the great majority of projects behind (Initial Coin Offering) s cannot present a functioning product or accommodation.If the Africunia (AFCASH) — ICO project has been able to secure collaborations from experienced and already established blockchain business or prominent business figures from venture capital, then you ken they have achieved a caliber of legitimacy. It’s a general rule never to invest more than you are disposed to lose, ergo, if you consider the Africunia (AFCASH) — ICO project and the amount they are offering as stakes in the startup, scrutinize the investment size. If it is outrageous, then you should consider investing as diminutive as possible, while this is not such an efficacious direct implement in assessing the authenticity of a crowd sale, it does avail reduce the amount of loss should the Africunia (AFCASH) — ICO project turn out to be a scam ICO. If an Initial Coin Offering like Africunia (AFCASH) — ICO, suddenly commences putting out a plethora of hype about time limits and a desideratum for exigency, then it is definitely something to keep visual perceivers open for. Many ICO scams like Africunia (AFCASH) — ICO, rely on the soi-disant “FOMO,” or trepidation of missing out. AFCASH technology is based on the AFRICUNIA PROTOCOL CONSENSUS ALGORITHM (APCA). The APCA will incorporate the following components: Server, Ledger, Last Closed Ledger and Open Ledger. The Bitcoin crypto was lauded for its massive potentials to circumvent the existing centralized banking systems. Bitcoin used the ubiquitous Blockchain Technology to facilitate the peer-to-peer transfer of funds thereby, eliminating third parties in the financial transactions. Because of its potentials in the financial sector, many tech enthusiasts proclaimed it as the future currency (because of its durability, divisibility, verifiability and value creation). https://africunia.com. Following the success stories of Bitcoin, other currencies began to spring up with each having its own specific consensus algorithm as a mathematical proof to back it up. Bitcoin crypto brought about solutions to the financial world, the Ethereum crypto sought to bring about solutions to programs called smart contracts. The exceptional role of these cryptos in the Fintech world has been recognized and taken into consideration by the FinTech companies. A number of technical reasons, such as the technology’s inaccessibility, overload of difficult terminologies and the usability hurdles continue to prevent the average internet user from taking advantage of cryptos, causing their slow adoption rate. Ideally, if a proper legal framework can be developed to guard against regulatory uncertainty, then perhaps it can act as a catalyst for adoption and use of these digital currencies and thus the birth of AFFRICUNIA BANK were established to narrow the gap between the conventional currencies and the crypto world. The AFCASH platform will incorporate the following components: APIs, EMIs, Commercial Banks and Digital Pass Technology. https://africunia.com. The structure of the fund may differ from one case to another. It will be run by a reputable legal counsel that will keep an updated review of what has been published. The public contributors will be allocated 50% of the AFCASHs. The company reserve will be assigned 30% of the AFCASHs. The remaining 20% of the AFCASHs will be allocated to the Founding Africunia Members and its advisors, partners, and campaigners as follows: 15% (Africunia Founders); 3% (Advisors & Partners); 2% (Campaigners). These funds would not be immediately tradable in order to continue motivating the core team after the distribution period. https://africunia.com. The roadmap in the process of actualizing a financial institution born from a Cryptocurrency will incorporate many different aspects ranging from development of the technology, testing and complying with regulatory regimes in various jurisdictions. 10th July 2017 to 1st January 2018 was the first milestone which was based on Research and development. The second Milestone started on 1st December 2017 and ended on 31st December 2017. This was the PRE-ICO sale. The third Milestone commenced on 1st January 2018 will end on 31st March 2018. This is the ICO sale and run through a period of 3 months.FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT THE FOLLOWING LINKS BELOW:Website: https://africunia.com Telegram: https://t.me/africunia Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/africunia/ Twitter: https://twitter.com/africunia/ Github : https://github.com/africunia Slack : https://africuniabank.slack.com/ Whitepaper: https://africunia.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/AFCASH-Whitepaper.pdf Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/africunia Steemit: http://steamcommunity.com/id/africuniaBy: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1897678