
Cryptojacking the MarketA lot of new crimes are enabled by the anonymity of the internet. Cybercriminals follow the money and at this point in time they see it in the unregulated and largely unsecure world of digital currencies on the internet. It provides a huge opportunity to target people, businesses and exchanges to make money quickly and easily.In crypto jacking, cybercriminals secretly take over another computer’s browser and use it to fraudulently mine or create cryptocurrencies. These miners use special software to solve math problems and are issued a certain number of bitcoins or cryptocurrencies in exchange. Since the mid-2017, browsers, browser extensions, and mobile apps have all been used to spread Coinhive, a Javascript miner for Monero.“In many ways it’s like the gold rush of the 1840s as people flood to the opportunity cryptocurrencies present and are preyed on by criminals and the unscrupulous.” — Rick Holland, VP strategy at Digital ShadowsA look at recent examples of cryptojacking throws light on this issue. Starting mid-2017, there have been a large increase of instances in which major websites have found themselves compromised and unknowingly hosting the code, turning their users into mining bots. At a Buenos Aires Starbucks outlet their free public wifi was discovered to have had someone manipulate the Wi-Fi, delaying the connection in order to mine Monero with customers devices. Even more popular services such as YouTube have been affected.Cryptojacking doesn’t require a download, it starts instantly, and works efficiently. Making it even more insidious, hackers can sneak a mining component onto unsuspecting websites and pilfer cryptocurrency off of the legitimate site’s traffic.Despite those high-profile sneak attacks, researchers say that most cryptojacking is intentional, and that the practice is evolving in concerning ways. More intense processing demands can do real damage to victim devices over time. One type of Android malware, known as Loapi, mines cryptocurrency so intensely that it can cause physical harm to the devices it runs on. And since cryptojacking is so new, hackers still constantly develop innovations to maximize their intake.Personally I believe that cryptojacking will become a major issue as cryptocurrency becomes more and more in demand. The rate at which cryptocurrency becomes popular will influence how much work cryptojackers need to put in. The more popular the currency is, the less work the jackers will need to do. This means that innocent and unknowing people are being taken advantage of, it may seem as though there is no physical harm taking place to the victim but essentially they will begin to believe something is wrong with their device and they will spend money to replace a device that was taken advantage of by someone else, essentially the art of cryptojacking could be referred to as not only stealing but also a form of vandalism.