
Help For Independent Creators… At LastPhoto by Markus SpiskeThe established order of our entertainment industry is well entrenched. The studios that distribute what we watch and listen to have existed for years and have built themselves into the giants that they are. They have the relationships with artists and agencies, the distribution channels to get artistic works in front of countless people, and a long-standing relationship with those audience through track record and reputation.And it is a dynamic that has long been self-perpetuating; artists who want to reach a wide audience work to try and establish a relationship with these billion-dollar corporations, whatever the terms might be. Far too often that has meant that these studios garner the overwhelming majority of profits from artists’ work, while creators and independent distributors have struggled to try and earn a living.Technology Grows the Creator ClassChanges in technology this century have threatened to change this relationship and level the playing field. The tools of creativity have never been more accessible to more people. Our phones and laptops and tablets can turn any one of us with the creativity and desire into an artist. And the spread of internet connectivity to the furthest reaches of the globe allows us to share our work with people around the globe.These changes to how we capture our photos and videos and songs and the ease with which we can share them, along with the exponential growth in potential audiences, has presented an opportunity for independent creators to reclaim the power over the distribution and monetization process. But technology failed to keep pace when it came to digital rights management, and the untapped value of the digital content we create has hindered the growth of needed change in the market — until now.RightsLedger Changes the GameWith RightsLedger, creators can take advantage of the full value of their work. The blockchain-based platform allow users to manage their content rights, prevent piracy, establish ownership and create deals for distributing work in a secure global marketplace.When users upload their content to RightsLedger, they are saving their work to the blockchain to establish a protected repository of their work. The platform gives them full control to create smart contracts to monetize their work and the ability to prevent piracy of their work with fingerprint technology. And the transparency of the blockchain maintains accountability and facilitates quick and easy payments.Instead of the disconnected, top-down process that currently exists, RightsLedger creates a new dynamic that returns power to everyone in the content creation ecosystem, not just the big distribution companies. Amateur creators can maintain control of how their work is being used rather than having to distribute it through social media channels, where they give up the rights to their work and run the risk of piracy and data breaches. Independent professionals have access to new markets around the world, where they can make deals and distribute their rights with international buyers with ease. And larger distributors can access a trove of new content that they can then license and manage payments to owners in a matter of minutes.Individual creators and independent creators have spent too long working under a system that profits from their creativity and shares little for their work. RightsLedger is returning power back to the creators.Join us on Telegram @RightsLedger to stay up to date on our latest updates.