
3 ICO’s I’m passing on and why: $GEN, $GET & QNTAll cryptocurrencies mentioned in my posts go through my initial analysis process which you can find in my free guide: ‘7 Step Analysis To Quickly Spot High-Quality ICOs & Cryptocurrencies’. Get My Free Guide Here.The purpose of this blog post is not to provide a review of the projects — there are enough of those online, this post is just to share my thoughts and opinion after taking a look and researching the projects.I’m also not a techie, so this won’t be my angle, if you’re looking for a technical explanation of the project, again there’s loads of those out there online too, so you will be better off looking elsewhere. As an investor, this is where I will be coming from in this post, keeping the content simple and concise on what I like, or don’t like about the projects mentioned.In no particular order. Here are 3 ICO’s I’m passing on:DAOStack The idea is not a new one but solves a real problem in blockchain. The team is strong with the experience to deliver, in my opinion. The project is far ahead in development, on the verge of release. The token metrics are not fantastic but as a long term hold should be solid. However my biggest concern is the adoption. The current competitor is Aargon, which peaked at only 8.5x and has been out a while. It may outperform that however this shows me that right now there is not huge demand for this kind of project.Themis Network Team looks young, which can be a good thing and I like the fact that fenbushi capital is behind this project, however I’m struggling with the use case and not really able to get a handle of the potential of OTC trading in China, especially amid the regulatory situation over there. Plus there is no real evidence of project development available and although I think the hard cap reflects this and it may do well, it’s not a project I would like to personally place a bet on.Quant Network Team is solid and conducting the ICO fairly however, I’m not convinced there is strong enough demand for this project. It seems like there is strong competition in this space if I understand this project correctly, so I don’t see any uniqueness in this project. I like the intention with patents filed but without solid transparency, actual development with beta, etc not released for a while, it’s not my kind of project.Resources:Website: http://www.cryptocurrencyorchard.comFree Guide: http://www.cryptocurrencyorchard.com/guideTelegram: http://t.me/cc_orchardLike this post? Let me know…please give me a clap or a few?