
Update: BlockShow, Crypto meetup and developments to platformAnother action packed week here at Crowdholding as we are consistely growing and making new connections, so we write updates to inform our Crowdholders of the recent developments. So lets begin!Our monthly Blockchain & Cryptocurrency meetupWe held our 4th crypto meetup where the topic was soley focused on mining cryptocurrencies. We had three expert speakers who went through everything from the basics of mining, how to build a mining rig to the different types of mining.Blockshow partnershipWe are proud to announce that we have partnered up with BlockShow and we will be attending their event in Berlin on the 28th to the 29th of May. BlockShow Europe will attract over 3000 guests, 120+ partners and over 70 globally recognized speakers. Their conference is designed to provide an exclusive look into exciting projects and initiatives, as well as to keep introducing Blockchain to the World. This is a great for us as we can spread our ideology, recruit new startups to join our platform and get more involved in the cryptosphere. If you are interested in attending, you can use our code (20CROWDHOLDING) to get a 20% discount on your purchase.Developments to the platformWe are on the verge to really moving our product forward catering to both clients (ie. startups) and users (ie. Crowdholders). And the first steps of this was launched today. Adding moderation features to get rid of spam and connecting Ethereum wallets for startups to purchase YUPs directly on our app to enable them to place tasks. In addition, we added features in the activity section allowing users to add qualifications, descriptions and tagging their own skills, that will be later used to notify users of task that focus on their expertise. Lets us go through our development notes so you see clearly what is now on CH.UI review of profile/account section: We have a new interface when you click your activity profile. You are able to add your pitch (short character description on who you are) A longer description about yourself and tagging skills you have in order to allow future tasks to tag skill they need and users who tagged the same skills get notified.New partner section on our homepage: We display our partners to view from our home page, a quick need to help cross promote our work relationship.Exclude YUP rewards from banned comments: Prior to this, the rewards were still showing up. This was a fix in order to not have confusion that banned users still earn crypto who try to abuse our system.Improvements on speed and server error management: There was some optimization errors that was having some problems with adequate responsiveness.Initial version of project admin to top up credit: Admins can now top up YUP credits to make tasks. Thus, every project has their own generated wallet for Admins to top up YUP credits though payment. This then is connected to their task which shoots the token rewards to participants. An important feature to support our paying clients with ease and simplicity through automation.So that raps it up for this recent push. We will share more of the plans to come next update. Keep up the good work for all our active users and supporters. You can keep up to date with what is happening at Crowdholding by following us at Facebook, or chatting with us on telegram.