
Smart Bracket + Smart Contracts: A Match Made in Heaven for Esport Event OrganizersIn esports and traditional sports the concept of a tournament bracket is well known and understood. Teams are matched up in competitions where the winner advances and the loser is knocked out. Eventually only two teams remain, and they will go head-to-head to determine the ultimate champion.Brackets are fun and exciting. It is an opportunity to watch your favorite team dominate their adversaries and hopefully reach the final event. People love bracket events for many other reasons as well. From the social interaction with peers, to the competitive nature and ultimately the entertainment aspect.As esports become increasingly popular we are sure to see a rise in bracket style events. We already have these events for the League of Legends Championship Series, Smash Rivalries, and Call of Duty. While these events are all excellent opportunities to cheer on your favorite team, they are also only for professional teams.What if you wanted to organize an event just for your friends, your school team, or for a bunch of amateur players online who want to see how they stack up against others? Depending on the size of your event this could get complicated rather quickly. If any prize money will be awarded this only adds to the complexity and introduces the question of who is responsible for paying up once a winner is declared. Thankfully, blockchain technology may be able to help solve a few of these problems. In the remained of this article I’d like to explore how smart contracts and smart brackets can be leveraged by any would-be event organizer to simplify the event process. Because let’s be honest, if you are organizing an event you don’t want to have a bunch of headaches. You want to have a blast playing your favorite games with some awesome people (who you will destroy, right?).Reusable Smart Brackets Reduce Setup TimeLet’s look at a smart bracket. To provide the max utility to an event organizer the bracket should be scalable to any size event. So, if you want to host a local event with 4 people the bracket should work just as well as if you were to host a 64-person championship. The bracket should also be able to run autonomously once the players are paired up in the first round. What this means is that once a winner is decided they are automatically moved to the next round, paired with a new opponent, and this process continues until the final round. The event organizer shouldn’t have any manual work with this process.Speaking of the first round, the players should be able to assign themselves to a position without the organizer having to step-in. Once the contestants are identified they should be able to select where in the Round 1 bracket they would like to be placed. As a player selects a seat, that same space now becomes unavailable to others. Once the bracket is full, let the games begin! This functionality reduces work by the organizer and allows players to “select their destiny” so to speak. If a player believes 8 is their lucky number, then they can select this spot and see if luck is on their side.Finally, the contract underlying the smart bracket must be reusable. This may seem obvious, but if the smart bracket is created specifically for a single event this won’t work for other future events. This isn’t to say a custom bracket has no place here, it very well may. However, a reusable smart bracket will be useful for organizers that want to create multiple events that vary in size and other specs.Smart Contracts Run the ShowUnder all the fun and excitement of a bracket lies a smart contract. The smart contract is responsible for receiving inputs and acting upon them in a pre-defined manner. If Player 1 selects Round 1 seat 8 then no other player can select seat 8. If Player A beats Player B, then Player A moves to spot X and Player B is eliminated. You get the point by now. The smart contract has a huge responsibility to ensure that the bracket and tournament operate as planned. For many organizers this may be a bit too much to undertake. That is why organizers should have access to the code that already facilitates the necessary functions. Access to the bracket code helps as well.Now to the question of the prize pool money.Quick poll: how many of you would send money to someone organizing an event as a buy-in if they promised to pay the pot to the winner? If you know the organizer you may, or may not, trust them. Maybe you found a great looking event online, but aren’t sure the organizer is legitimate. This is where the smart contract can flex its muscles and help out.The organizer could stipulate a buy-in, say $10 per player. Each player is allowed to select their place in the Round 1 bracket if, and only if, they pay the buy-in fee. So far so good. Now, the buy-in shouldn’t go to the organizer. If I charge $10/player and have 64 players I’m responsible for $640 in prize money. I could A) payout since I’m honest, B) lose the money, or C) take a nice vacation. Since I don’t want this headache I’d rather have the money sit safe and sound in a smart contract that will payout to the winners as dictated by the code. Now, smart contracts aren’t 100% secure. Yes, funds can be locked, private keys can be lost/forgotten, and numerous other issues can arise. So, while I won’t claim they are perfect, they are better than funds sitting in someone else’s bank account.What do we have here now? We have code that is open-source and will allow anyone to organize an event for any size participant pool from anywhere in the world. You don’t need a huge budget to build a great tournament. You need passion and a desire to bring together people with similar interests who have a desire to compete.If you’re interest in competitive gaming and would like to know more about our smart contracts and brackets, please check out Pay2Play. We are creating a cross-platform entertainment suite that will help facilitate bracket events such as those described above, as well as a few other cool features. We believe that everyone has the right to create their own events and we are excited to be creating technology to help make this possible. We will be hosting an event later this year with our own bracket. The game is still TBD (this writer is pushing for FIFA 18), but more announcements can be found on our Twitter as we get closer.