
5 Hottest Atlanta Startups in 2018Atlanta is quickly becoming one of the largest startup centers in the United States. Accelerators, incubators, and work spaces dot this mid-tier city. Most notably, Atlanta Tech Village boasts its status as America’s 4th largest tech hub. With that in mind, here are 5 of the hottest Atlanta-based startups.1) BitpaybitpayIf you bought into the rampant Bitcoin speculation as prices rose upwards of 10,000 dollars per coin, you might have heard of this startup. It’s one of the largest bitcoin processing companies bent on making peer-to-peer money exchange the future of transactions. The company was founded in 2011 by Tony Gallippi and Stephen Pair. In 2013, they moved their headquarters to Atlanta after receiving seed funding. Now, they’ve expanded their services to include BitCash, which allows for larger global transaction.2) Kabbagekabbage.comAtlanta is home to over 50 percent of America’s tech firms, so its no surprise that yet another financial application tops the list. Founded in 2009 by Rob Frohwein, Marc Gorlin, and Kathryn Petralia, Kabbage offers an automated lending systems that provides lines of credit up to $250,000. Recently, Kabbage has been named to Forbes Fintech 50.3) SalesLoftThis sales engagement company was founded in 2011 by Kyle Porter, Rob Forman, Tim Dorr, and David Cummings. In 2017 SalesLoft was recognized as the 7th fastest growing company in the United States by Tech Fast 500. Becoming one of Atlanta’s most touted startups didn’t come without difficulties as mention in this Business Insiders article.4) PindropPindrop is a security company that analyzes the risk of an incoming call and authenticates users based on Pindrop’s patented audio analysis technology. The origin story of this company is just as fascinating as its 122.8 million in total funding, with a 2016 series C funding coming in at 75 million.The story goes that Vijay Balasubramaniyan was going to purchase his suit in India when his bank canceled the transaction due to suspect spending. The problem was his bank couldn’t authenticate his identity over the phone. So, h set about solving that problem.You can read what happened next on their website.5) Springbot“Springbot streamlines the process of automating, analyzing and personalizing eCommerce marketing. With its all-in-one platform and data-driven marketing recommendations, Springbot empowers retailers through its core features.”Springbot has sprung in growth over the years after Allen Nance, Brooks Robinson, and Joe Roger founded the company in 2012. Its since won three Technology Association of Georgia (TAG) Top 40 Innovative Companies awards. They've recently closed a 10M series B fundraising.