
The United States of BitcoinBlockchainist Paper #1We here declare, that we the people are officially drafting a new constitution under the practice of Constitutional Convention, to form a new national body entitled, “The United States of Bitcoin”. To introduce a new form of digital Congress, that will give every user & citizen the right to legislate, appropriate & vote. To begin drafting a fundamentally vital Internet Bill Of Rights & a New Constitution that will encompass all beings on planet Earth & within the entirety of the Kuiper belt. The rights of all creators within the Universe will be uniformly endowed & protected under this decree. It’s time that the ideals that formulated the Magna Carta & the ideals that ratified the US Constitution into the world are reintroduced to the new generations that have been coerced, distracted and enervated by evolving technology, tribalism & an empathic gaze towards tyranny.These articles together with a Declaration Of Independence will be given to the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Council On Foreign Relations and other relevant international governing bodies. The United States Congress will be notified within 30 calendar days after necessary land & resources are accurately acquired here in the State of Nevada within the United States of America. This territory will be filed & registered in the Nevada Congress & Elko County Commissions as a newly formed unincorporated township of Bitcointopia. This new township, once established under law, will then, within 90 calendar days hereafter, officially demand and file for Independence, to claim Sovereignty under respective & relevant Treaties, Titles and International Laws.In respect to the United States of America’s Constitution & its honored Military Forces, we will draft a Treaty of Military Cooperation to partner with the US Cyber Command, US Army, US Navy, US Marines, US Coast Guard, US Space Corps & other Military Commands within the United States of America. A nation is built with a strong militia, a strong currency, a organization of revenue, process & a governing system. A well mannered digital militia & uniform military forces will be formed by this new nation to defend our borders, the internet and the Bitcoin network fully from all trespassing, transgression & intervention. This will be done immediately and in cooperation with the militia of Bitcoin.In respect to the 500+ Native Nations found within the United States, Canada & Mexico a Treaty of Cooperation to partner based on commercial & economic development will be formed to build a strong and long lasting relationship with the people who first held and maintained the lands of North America before the British Colonial forces engaged in hostilities with the original land representatives. To build a future together with all people of this planet, the history of brutality must be looked upon by our children to understand how history does not repeat itself, but how history is forgot and ignored. To move into the future with tolerance & temperance, we must remember our pasts.This action is being taken to rewrite humanities path for the better, it will save lives, these actions will protect the people from a forsaken tyrannical government filled with sociopathic & greedy traitors to the United States of America constitution and to its people. Like Thomas Jefferson & George Washington before us, many patriots and others have & will be labeled as traitors by many, but like Geronimo and Sitting Bull before us we must fight until death for our culture to be preserved. It’s time that the US Citizens, the Internet users and the world if humanity stand up and be United once again. The creation of a new nation, based in the Great Basin of Nevada, built on the principles of Bitcoin, Machine Learning, Direct Democracy, a self directed Republic founded on top of the Internet, with the true principles of the US Constitution & the original wisdom of the Native Nations, self governing can exist, we have the will and we have the technology.Bitcoin has a fight in the United States Federal Courts, State Courts & International Council’s, that will determine if Bitcoin is safe, legal & ethical to use on United States soil & within other nations. No matter the outcome of this process, our actions today will be carved into stone, burned into wood, written in ink & blood on paper as well as forever recorded & logged with binary in the Blockchain. We will fight for Bitcoin, We will fight for Americans, We will fight for all citizens of the World. We will fight for our lives. We will fight for our future. We will fight for our freedom.The United States of BitcoinPublius — 2018