
Cent Spotlight #1 - Crowdsourcing SurveysThis is the first in a weekly series of articles focused on all things Cent covering noteworthy Centians, novel uses for Cent, and other need-to-know info.  Cent provides a new, powerful way to interact with people connected to the internet. By enabling anyone to easily attach bounties to posts and broadcast them to a rapidly growing user base, the potential uses of Cent are as varied as individual user needs are.  Although we have compiled a list of potential use cases for Cent here [link], we would like to focus the spotlight on how one particular Centian used an innovative bounty to leverage the power of the platform in a novel way.  Less than a month ago user @seewatercrypto3 posted the very first survey on Cent that featured a short list of questions regarding users vacation and travel experiences.Through the on-demand nature of Cent, @seewatercrypto3 was able to mobilize support from sixty users who provided quality responses to each of the eight survey questions.  With a bounty of 0.045 ETH (approximately $19 at the time), that translates to less than 32 cents per completed survey. That along with the speedy and sincere responses that Cent’s passionate userbase is becoming known helped to create a solid ROI.  Cent differs from other services that encourage their members to *spam* a small subset of overall user inboxes in exchange for crypto. Cent offers the promise of access to on-demand competitive responses from a network of users on any topic imaginable.  For their part, users who respond are vying for an 80% of the bounty attached to each post. The remaining 20% is distributed amongst users who help sort and curate the best responses to each post. This powerful incentive structure helps to attract more and more users to Cent while at the same time presenting those who post with a curated list of high quality responses.  So, the next time you need help crowdsourcing active responses for a survey, or when you want to figure out what book you should read next, or if you have an upcoming due date on a thesis or paper that you need edited - or even if you just simply want to say something - attach a bounty and post it to beta.cent.co.