
Yet Another Crypto-collectibles PostBlockchains (and crypto-networks in general) are exciting because they represent a new way for humans to organize. Just as our tools for understanding business in the early 2000s didn’t equip us to predict the rise of the massive social networks and data aggregators, our tools and theories today probably don’t equip us to understand the human organizations built on crypto-networks tomorrow. It’s intractable to develop accurate closed-form theories about massive networks of humans from the outset (and frankly, most who tell you otherwise are bs-peddlers).Because I know that I shouldn’t expect to understand much analytically, I’ve been spending my time tinkering with the weird properties of crypto-networks. The weirder the better; the more something defies intuition, the more likely it testifies to some new dynamic about the medium (all other things constant). It pays to be an empiricist in this industry right now.This approach has led me to crypto-collectibles. Plenty’s already been written about these things and I think most of the right points have already been made. In a nutshell, virtual goods are already a huge market and the blockchain gives these goods certain properties- liquidity, trustless scarcity, trustless provenance- that make them ‘more exciting’ than they were on the internet.I want to comment on one aspect of ‘more exciting’: the trustlessness of the blockchain democratizes the creation of virtual goods.Of course, anyone can create a virtual good on the internet, but only a few entities (Blizzard, Valve, etc.) command the legitimacy required for users to trust that they’ll maintain the scarcity of those goods properly.On the other hand, anyone can create legitimately scarce virtual goods on the Ethereum blockchain because said scarcity properties are publicly available by smart contract. I think that’s extremely exciting.Maybe virtual goods will experience a mass democratization just like video content did at the advent of YouTube. What do you think?