
ILLUMINATI X PROJECTA Project For ATHEISTS, FREETHINKERS AND HUMANISTSIlluminati X is NOT A BUSINESS, We are A COMMUNITY we want to MAKE A DIFFERENCETo Freedom, To humanityProject Name: Illuminati XProject Symbol: IlumXAmount of Tokens For Airdrop distribution: 12million Tokensrequirement for Airdrop: Follow our Twitter Handle. https://twitter.com/IlumxProjectAmount of Token Per Persen: 5000Type of Token; ERC20Platform: Ethereum.our official website: http://www.ilumxproject.com/link to enlist for Airdrop: http://www.ilumxproject.com/claim-bounty-tokens/Token Details• Name: Illuminati X Project• Symbol: IlumX• Ownership: Token Holders• Unit: 18 Decimals• Wallet: ERC20 compliant wallets. Metamask & My Ether Wallet preferred• Total Supply: 940,000,000• Total For Distribution: 402,000,000• Total Reserved: 538,000,000• Application: IlumX Funds (Credit Union on the Blockchain)Pre-ICO Details1 Ether = 140,000 IlumXVisit www.ilumxproject.com to purchaseContact Administrators: ilumxproject@gmail.comContact@ilumxproject.comICO Details1 Ether = 70,000 IlumXDuration: 10st May, 2018–30st June, 2018Visit www.ilumxproject.com to purchaseContact Administrators: ilumxproject@gmail.comICO Revenue Allocation• 60% App Development, Website Upgrade (Secured Forum & IlumX Portal)• 20% Media and PR• 20% Launch of IlumX Cancer Research FundsReserve Token Allocation• 380,400,000IlumX Funds Insurance• 50,000,000Development and PR• 107,600,000Cancer Research FundsAbout IlumX ProjectWe are about 3 thingsOur Product: IlumX FundsOur Community: Illuminati X ForumOur Social Responsibility / Campaign : IlumX Cancer Research Funds and Responsible Consumer Campaign.We are using the best attributes of the Credit Union System and added a few improvements taking advantage of the blockchain technology in giving credit to users based on the community support system of the credit union. IlumX Funds would serve its users using an API linked to an Algorithm running on the blockchain and using the IlumX Token contract to execute transfers between Users , the IlumX Reserve Accounts and IlumX Pool Accounts. The ilumX Token Contract is an ERC20, but would be recognized as the authorized token for the Algorithm Contract that would interface with the IlumX Funds Mobile Applications of the users.Why you should buy and HODL IlumXThere is only one reason -DEMAND!IlumX is providing a service that cannot be satisfied. “Human Needs are Insatiable” this the basis of economics. Credit Supply is way lower than demand. And with Funds, we are talking about supply and demand of everything as money is used to value all supply and demands.IlumX is offering a solution that is in high demand. Credit unions handling about $2 Trillion in assets (2014). Debt in the United States alone Exceeding $16 Trillion in 2017 and it keeps rising. There is obviously a demand for credit solutions and with the use of the blockchain technology, we can serve more and more people with little operational costs.IlumX IS DESTINED TO MOON!We are not charging any interests.We are very convenient to use.We provide financial counsel and guide to get users out of financial crisis.We provide alternatives for those unable to clear their credits.We have an open forum for users.We are definitely going to be a first choice in the market and this means only one thing.Value of IlumX is set to skyrocket within weeks of entering the market.FUTURE OF IlumX• The IlumX Beta version when released would be fully autonomous and decentralized. Redesign would be based on lessons learned and data collected from the Alpha Application.• Open source Frontend and Backend Programs. Community based Frontend development.• Integration of other credit solutions such as credit cards, vouchers and even credit ATMs would definitely happen in future as adaptation of the blockchain increases.• Faster credit request processing as the backend algorithm becomes more sophisticated and efficient.• Interaction with other financial services hosted on the blockchain. To provide more wholesome solutions and enhance the security of the system by integrating and sharing data with other related smart contracts. Which would be possible through the development from our community.Future of IlumX Special Intervention FundsIlumX would be giving $50,000 to those who can present their business plans convincingly to the IlumX Forum. Through this we intend to help members/users make their dreams come true. With careful review and guidance from experts on the forum we believe we would be able to set many on the path to success. Keep in mind that the community is the heart of IlumX Project.The funds would also be available to those with chronic diseases who need medical intervention.The forum would also vote to choose cases we are to finance as funds are limited.Future For IlumX Cancer Research FundsWe believe rewarding researchers with 20% of our revenues would help to accelerate the development of cheaper and more effective Cancer treatment. We cannot leave this to big pharmaceutical companies who are primarily interested in making profit.We are contributing to a better future.For more information visit www.ilumxproject.com