
The BITCOIN-Puzzles AND The Missing Piece — I Finally Found it!I have literally spent hours to make this chart and to figure out Bitcoin . I’ve spent hours to count the Elliott Waves down to the smallest sub-waves. I’ve spent hours talking with experts, who have more experience with Elliott Wave-theory than me. And none of us can make it work 100 % — It’s one of the few times that has happened.But It kinda make sense, when we know, that the market the last couple of weeks heavily has been manipulated compared to what we normally see. Many Top Authors in here says the same, and I also hear it from big crypto-guys on Twitter.But now let’s take a look at the 2h BTCUSD chart! First of all I want you to pay attention to the orange up trending channel we are in right now. The experienced trader can quickly see, that the price movements are pretty suspect. Sudden price movements in different directions — huge volume . A trend you very often not could count on and so on.Hereafter I want you to take notice of my purple puzzle piece. But hey, WTF? The corrective purple wave C is in the middle of the big green candle! Yes, guys. I have decided after this heavily manipulated move from the whales (the BTC-record when it comes to volume by hour. 24 times the MA20 Volume ) to place the end of Wave C in the middle of the green candle!! On the smaller time frames you can see, it just fit, but doesn’t live 100 % up to our EW guidelines.So we are now in the process of an 1–5 EW structure inside the channel. We are right now riding wave 3, but as you can see, we are almost falling out of the channel at his very moment. The bulls are fighting to keep us inside. It doesn’t seem super convincing so far.. BUT!After I spent a whole day yesterday to study down to the smallest details, how the whales operate and have manipulated the market lately, I think I have figured out their plan. To make a long story short. They will help us staying inside this channel. That’s all I can tell.When that is said. You can see, after I’ve used the Trend based Fibonacci Tool to determine our targets, how beautifully everything matches.