
BITNATION- Moving from Country first to Citizen firstWe are living in a world where nations are crumbling, governments are failing, political rivalries and national rivalries are on an all time high. Children are dying, people are fighting over resources, and there are huge numbers of refugees. All of them caused due to government and political instability on which citizens have no control over.Citizens are unhappy with the way their governments are functioning and refugees are helpless and at the same time, the rich are getting richer and the poor are just getting poorer there is no way in which a citizen can control all this.In such a time and period, Bitnation which founded in 2014 is offering the people the solution- an option to select or create their own government based on blockchain technology and help create a world where in sovereignty shifts decisively from the State to the Citizen, and humanity reclaims freedom of choice when accessing governance services.CONCEPT:Bitnation is an alternative model of global governance which uses blockchain technology to create free market for government services. It doesn’t believe in the concept of bettering the government, rather it believes in changing the way the society interacts with system of governance. They believe that these systems should be completely be opt –in or opt-out depending on the choice of user.Bitnation is platform for do it yourself governance which empowers any person in world to effectively create their own system in which they believe their society or members of society should behave in their society. They believe in reducing competition between citizens for services and increasing competition between Nations for citizens as this will improve the quality of governance and reduce incentives for coercion and violenceA Brief History Of BitnationCOMPONENTS:Bitnation is a vast and complex structure made of few components which make its working easy. They are· Pangea : Pangea is the software infrastructure for Voluntary Nations. Pangea is both a jurisdiction for DBVNs, and the platform on which new DBVNs can be built and joined, and through which governance services can be accessed. Pangea uses the Panthalassa mesh, which is built using Secure Scuttlebutt (SSB) and Interplanetary File System (IPFS) protocols. This enables Pangea to be highly resilient and secure, conferring resistance to emergent threats such as high-performance quantum cryptography. Pangea is blockchain agnostic, but uses the Ethereum blockchain for the time being. In the future, other chains such as Bitcoin, EOS and Tezos can be integrated with Pangea.Pangea has had 3 versions as of nowv Pangea 0.1 Horizon: The very first version of Pangea was built in 2015 on the Horizon blockchain. Horizon is a fork of NXT that allows for greater on-chain storage. The first version had a few drawbacks, to which the market analysis suggested to incorporate chat applications in order to achieve mass adoption for future peer-to-peer contracts.v Pangea 0.2 on Secure Scuttlebutt (SSB): Pangea 0.2 was built in 2016 using code from the open source mesh network communications protocol SSB. It allowed the user to carry around their own data, rather than trusting it to centralized servers — as is currently the case with WhatsApp, Signal, and Facebook Messenger, for example. SSB both provides remarkable resilience and allows users to operate without access to an internet connection — through mesh networks, sneakernets and gossip protocols.v Pangea 0.3 on Panthalassa: The third version of Pangea has been developed in 2017 on Bitnation’s own mesh network, Panthalassa. It borrows from the philosophy of SSB’s gossip protocol but it is much easier to use as users don’t have to create full nodes and download message chains. It has also increased the data storage and manipulation capacity as it is implemented on the Interplanetary File System (IPFS) distributed web protocol and it incorporates an Ethereum geth_node to enable smart contracts created on Pangea to be written to a blockchain. Quantum resistant encryption is being added to future-proof user security. The new Pangea 0.3 frontend is a mobile first chat application with embedded Ethereum smart contract· Decentralized Borderless Voluntary Nation (DBVN): Bitnation. New DBVNs can be created on Pangea or created through forking Bitnation.· Holons: Groups of people within a DBVN working towards a specific end. This can mean a holon dedicated to a specific subject like marketing of Pangea, or it can be a holon totally disconnected from Bitnation’s operation, let us say a holon working on organizing social events.· Genesis Holon: The core Bitnation executive holon consisting of persons who make executive decisions on the strategic direction of the DBVN. Members of the Genesis Holon are selected on the basis of commitment to Bitnation, expertise in designated fields of work, and performance over time. Although membership will change, change is designed to have an inherent slowness worked into it in order to provide long-term stability and continuity. Members of the Genesis Holon are the ‘Guardians of the DBVN’, essentially.· Reputation :LUCY AI- In Pangea , reputation is earned when a user resolves disputes, cooperates with others and earns rewards. In this case , Rewards are provided in the form of reputation, scores or ratings which Citizens, Arbitrators, Governance Services Providers, Nations, Smart Contracts and Codes of Law accumulate which can be searched by others. And there also exists a feedback system so as to rate every component in the system thus making sure that every smart contract and entity has a reputation rating and that every citizen is following a list. Also the ratings are given by the AI — Lucy or the citizens. These rewards further are in form of PAT (tokens) .· The IFPS Contract Registry: Panthalassa uses IPFS to store and search smart contracts, legal codes and more. This registry has been specifically designed for smart contracts and codes of law have been developed to supports Pangea’s ability to rate contracts with proof-of-nomic reputation sub-tokens. IFPSS is also used to host data so that in case the node to which the user is connected to goes offline, they don’t get excluded from network.· Governance Services: DApps and Chatbots: Pangea’s API (Application Programming Interface) will allow DApp (Decentralized Applications) and chat bot developers to create third-party applications as services on Pangea that Citizens or DBVNs that live on Pangea could choose to use. It could include apps that help in Peer-to-Peer Financial Redistribution, Crowd Arbitration or Peer-to-Peer Security· Pangea Arbitration Token (PAT): The PAT token will reward the successful execution of contractual agreements on the Pangea platform and will be tradable on cryptocurrency exchanges. It is going to be distributed via an Ethereum smart contract and will help in governing the non-tradable reputation tokensv Proof-of-Agreement (POA): This token will be used by Pangea users and arbitrators and will be governed by performance criteria for smart contract creation and execution;v Proof-of-Collective (POC): This reputation token is governed by user satisfaction with collective contract creation and execution and it is usable for DBVNs, user groups and governance services created on Pangaea.v Proof-of-Nomic (PON): This token is to be used for contracts, laws and legal codes governed by user satisfaction.· Core Contributors: They are the people who contribute significantly to core functions of the DBVN (like tech, community, finance, etc.) at a certain point in time.· Citizens: They are the ones who subscribe to the vision, philosophy and goals set out by the DBVN and subscribe to join as a Citizen, to enjoy the services the DBVN offers.· Ambassadors: People who take an active role in Bitnation on a volunteer or semi-volunteer basis with a greater level of insight and engagement than an average Citizen. There are different types of Ambassadors, some focused-on community engagement, others on diplomacy.· Embassies & Consulates: Physical places for Citizens to meet, work and occasionally live. It can be a public spaces or private homes.· Allies: Entities who have actively cooperated with the DBVN. Can be a private companyWORKING:To put it in simple words, once a person decides to be citizen of bitnation, he has to install the app, and he or she can then either join a nation or create a new one with their own rules and follow regulations which refer to an existing code of law (e.g. Common Law, Sharia Law, UNIDROIT, or Civil Code) or upload their own laws or a template smart contract containing bespoke rules to govern agreements.Here they can then make peer-to-peer agreements, resolve disputes, and access governance services from DBVNs using the legal code of their preference all with the help of PAT tokens and Users choose human arbitrator(s) or dispute resolution DApps offering methods such as crowd juries.With the help of PAT token, IPFS, Oracle and an autonomous agent (Lucy) Pangea will semi-autonomously distribute reputation to smart contracts based on performance (fitness). Through this process a body of rules (smart contracts) suited for various purposes will emerge in the Pangea jurisdiction and evolve through use to best serve Citizens’ needs as an optional standard format for Citizens.FEATURES:Borderless: In bitnation, geographical boundaries don’t matter and any one from any part of the world can be a member and enjoy high-end, competitive governance services.Decentralised: As bitnation operates on the Blockchain a cryptographically secured public ledger distributed amongst all of ist millions of users around the world, to ensure peer-to-peer autonomy while ensuring decentralisation of services.Voluntary: Bitnation provides a platform for users to develop their own governance functions, or fork the code and create a brand new governance system and is voluntary where users have the option to choose for themselves.Bitnation refugee blockchain ID : One of the most important part of this system is the importance given to the refugees with the help Bitnation refugee blockchain ID where have the refugees have blockchain ID’s, and it will give them a way to identify themselves in front of government.ARCHITECTURE:The architecture of the system consists of the components that have been explained aboveROADMAPTEAM:Susanne Tarkowski Tempelhof: Founder and CEO -She started her career with Cetena Group where she was the art director and followed it up with founding the Wise Stratergic communication and Shabakat Corporation.James Fennell Tempelhof: Co-Founder and COO — Prior to this , he has mostly been in the field of Humanitarian work and has been creating content and a vocal supporter of refugees. He has been the Vice President for Humanitarian Support Operations at G4S International, and he has also been for Regional Conflict Adviser, West Africa and Afghanistan at DFID.Dr. John Matthews: Chief Financial Officer- He has been Senior Associate — Risk & Data Assurance — Banking & Capital Markets andcurrently he is also the CFO of Bitnation GmbH and a consultant at Anaheim Consulting B.V.Sonja Prstec : Chief Legal Officer — She has practised law prior to this at Law Officeof BELCAR PRSTEC before practising independently.VERDICT:Pros:· Helpful in giving identity to its users.· Solving disputes become easier.· Distribution of tokens depends on user’s reputation and cannot be externally manipulated.· Android and IOs app already available.Cons:· No way to view populations of different countries· It is very limited as of now.· More dapps to be built in.· There is no clarity with respect to how the identity will be useful in the real world scenario.· No system in place to monitor illegal activities.Even though the developers are really invested in making the app more user friendly, easy to use and are trying to integrate as many features so as to make the aspects like making marriages, birth certificates, id’s and passports legal it cannot be ignored that there is no use of these id’s in real world as of now. Another point to be noted is there is no governing body which can keep illegal activities in check. Even though the plan sounds good, they need to incorporate these few things and take steps to ensure that the ids created are valid in real world too. Only then can the plan be viable.TOKEN MATRIX:Token: PATPrice: 22 PAT = 1 USDBonus: AvailablePlatform:EthereumAccepting: ETHMinimum investment: 0.05 ETHHard cap:30000000 USDCountry: SwitzerlandWhitelist/KYC:NoneTOKEN DISTRIBUTIONLinks: Website: https://tse.bitnation.co/ Twitter: https://twitter.com/@MyBitnation Telegram: https://t.me/PangeaBitnation Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/MyBitnation Steemit: https://steemit.com/@bitnation