
Coinbase now Values Itself at $8 BillionTechCrunchIt was just less than one year ago, Coinbase raised $100 million at a $1.6 Billion valuation. That was then, and this is now and for all Coinbase’s good efforts, it feels a bit strange.Greedy Startups Just Want to Make a BuckTenorCoinbase has been on the front lines doing what San Francisco startups do, try to maximize growth, even while providing comparatively high trading fees. When the Bitcoin singularity occurred, Coinbase’s app rocketed up Apple Store’s rankings.Coinbase’s CEO even argued that it’s actually on the side of decentralization in a recent post.This week Recode is reporting that Coinbase is self-valuing its company at $8 billion, an astonishing amount for a digital currency exchange.Coinbase Is Attacking the Utility Phase of CryptoWhat is wrong with this picture? Coinbase knows a utility phase is coming, where people actually begin using crypto as a payment network, transacting for real goods and services, interacting with dapps, etc. We can see this already occuring in places like Japan, parts of Taiwan, etc…With rapment regulation in America by the SEC on ICOs and a Crypto Ad-ban of major big tech platforms, it solidifies Coinbase to wrap its Silicon valley tentacles around more value propositions to fuel its growth. Coinbase recently acquired Earn.com and is rapidly looking for ways to expand.Coinbase stores $150 Billion in assets on its platform. Earn.com is really all about being a portal that allows people to make money by answering emails or completing other tasks. Thus, Coinbase is rapidly trying to position itself as a major pillar of the future ecosystem of crypto interactions. This however is not a very idealistic firm but rather a very American capitalism grab at the future of crypto; and it’s not easy to watch.Business InsiderIs Coinbase Trustworthy for the Decentralization Advocate?Is this a company Millennials can trust to give them good fees and easy access? Binance, another cryptocurrency trading company, has reported higher profits than Europe’s leading financial institution, Deutsche Bank. It’s also however been able to keep the idealism of crypto that Millennials deeply care about. Coinbase, not so much.By valuating itself at $8 Billion after the acquisition of Earn.com, Coinbase is over-estimating it’s own importance and Recode noticed and it’s lowering our trust in how Coinbase operates. That’s the Silicon Valley way, all hype and glamor and wait for it, higher trading feeds.Coinbase now has more than 300 employees spread across its four offices and nearly 1,000 full-time personnel when including dedicated contractors. But it’s very much run like an American corporation.Coinbase also knows how to play by the rules. Coinbase is a federally regulated money service business and has been granted licenses by regulatory authorities in 31 states, including New York’s BitLicense. Coinbase also knows how to lure in Wall Street to its play. But is it really customer centric? This is not the Amazon of crypto trading, to be sure.$8 Billion ValuationIt’s believed that Coinbase floated this $8 billion valuation based on their end of the year earnings and the growing interest in their platform. But in the growing valuation of cryptocurrency markets and their ludicrous valuation, it’s kind of a joke.Coinbase still has a lot to prove. Too many investors are trying to get in. This is because it’s a San Francisco play, with the usual tricks. Coinbase has a master-plan, and it will involve a lot of money. As we have seen with Big Tech, being popular, displaying user growth and going for profitability above all, is the American way. Coinbase wants to be the American consumer interface for crypto apps and utilities. But is the service up to the hype?