
CONQUERING THE LONDON BLOCKCHAIN EXPOOh, do we have some exciting news to share. We’ve been working hard, sadly leaving our Medium blog a bit dry in the past few weeks — but it’s not been for nothing and now we’re back with announcements!First things first. BGX had a chance to attend one of the most prestigious Blockchain events in the world. THE LONDON BLOCKCHAIN EXPO.WHAT IS IT ABOUTDrawing in a record of 10,500 technology experts, business professionals, and just interested people, the London Blockchain Expo is a vibrant annual conference organised for the most top-tier cutting-edge technology projects. That’s why BGX had to be there! Not only did we attend, we also had a booth and a speaker on our team.WHO WAS IN ATTENDANCEALLA WIELICZKER — Founding Team Member, Product Development Expert; The best at explaining the most complicated parts of BGX — simplyFOREST BARBIERI — Key Business Advisor, Decades of Experience Building Multi-Million Dollar Businesses; A master of connecting with people and inspiring that BGX beliefALEX KHVATOV — Founding Team Member, CFO, Investor Relations; The most inspiring BGX speakerWHAT HAPPENED AT THE BOOTHThe level of enthusiasm about BGX was off the charts! We occupied a corner booth, with three people to man it, and mostly — each member was occupied talking to a separate small crowd of people.Some heard about BGX.Some asked about BGX.Some told about their exciting projects.Yet no matter the case, some great and meaningful connections were established. Many people asked advanced questions about our project, others were just curious about blockchain applications to the real-market. We were happy to talk with each and every one, heard some positive feedback from potential investors, and in all cases — giving away a small present as a token of our appreciation!WHAT HAPPENED WITH THE PITCHAlex delivered a pitch in front of a highly engaged audience. He spoke about the need for blockchain solutions to be more practical to the real world. The industry is maturing and so it is time for blockchain solutions to mature as well.Despite the pitch being just five brief minutes, news of BGX broke out and our booth enjoyed a surge of popularity afterwards.FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS AT THE CONFERENCEAmong the questions that were frequently asked, we encountered the following:Where is the team and the company from?Zug, the “Crypto Valley” in sunny SwitzerlandI don’t play games. Why would I be interested in your mobile gaming project?Because we are not a mobile game. We are a fintech solution for a $60bn market that has a bottleneck of just 2–3 large app distributors (Google, Apple, Tencent). That situation is unstable and using our solution, we can bring so much value for such a low cost, that the 80% of game studios going bankrupt within two years of opening — will be earning for years to come.What makes your blockchain solution special?We are the most powerful payment processing platform in existence. We can process 10⁴ transactions per second, at very fast speeds, with the lowest costs, and utmost security.How can I participate?Email us at invest@bgx.ai for the most advantageous terms or go to https://bgx.ai to sign up for your personal dashboard.WHAT WOULD WE IMPROVEBGX wants to practice total honesty in its posts. While we consider the conference a success, there we do have improvements to make.For the next conference (coming up, stay tuned!) we will bring new materials. They will be lighter on the information, but inform of what’s most important quickly. We will have a larger team to handle the demand. And we will have more private meetings booked ahead of time.More posts coming up next! And if you would like to participate in the BGX Private Sale, don’t forget to email invest@bgx.ai