
Tips on Getting Your Expo App Approved on App StoresHere at Altcoin Fantasy, our goal is to educate users on the dangers of cryptocurrency trading — we do this via a cryptocurrency trading simulation platform where users trade risk-free before risking actual money. It’s free to play, and the top traders in our weekly contests win some actual crypto! Our users were clamouring for a mobile version of the app, and we decided the quickest and best way to build one was by using Expo and React Native. If you’re interested in learning more about how we were able to quickly bootstrap an app using Expo, read more in our recent walkthrough.Writing the app was the controllable part of the process: you have complete control of how you write and how fast you code your app. Unfortunately, there are some things outside of your control when building an app that you should consider. Specifically, the app has to go through an approval process on both the Google Play and the iTunes App stores.I’ll list out the lessons and the tips I learned from this process and hopefully this will save people time (and grief!).Expo has a guide to show you how to deploy apps to the app stores. While there are some general pointers on that page, there are more gotchas to watch out for, which I’ll list in this article. I’ll separate my tips under two categories: iOS App-store-specific and Play-Store-specific.Quick overview• iOS App Store Tip #1: Budgeting for processing and approval/follow-up• iOS App Store Tip #2: Check the advertisement info (IDFA) • iOS App Store Tip #3: “Apple is not affiliated” disclaimer for contests• iOS App Store Tip #4: Test for iPads (even if your app is “iPhone only”)!• Play Store Tip #1: Take advantage of the Pre-Launch Report• Play Store Tip #2: Use the Google Play release workflow to test properly• Play Store Tip #3: Don’t do a full 100% roll-out for higher risk releasesiOS App Store Tip #1: Budgeting time for processing and for approval/follow-upOne thing we learned the hard way was around coordinating the app launch with a PR/media release. We thought one week would be plenty to finish the process. Our app got rejected after a few days, and they wanted more information. The whole process of back-and-forth took a few rounds, each taking a day or two. So lesson #1? Expect that your app won’t be approved the first time you submit it, and plan your schedule accordingly.iOS App Store Tip #2: Make sure to check the advertisement info (IDFA)You’ll need to check the checkbox for Apple Identifier for Advertisers (IDFA) on the last step of the submission page, then select Attribute this app installation to a previously served advertisement.I was a little stumped when I first tried to submit our app since I didn’t include any ads in my app, but after Googling the answer I found that:because Expo depends on Segment Analytics, the answer is yes (to IDFA)iOS App Store Tip #3: If you’re running any free contests with prizes, disclaim in the Terms & Conditions that Apple is in no way affiliated with your product.We had to add a disclaimer to satisfy AppleWe got rejected once because, we didn’t add in our Terms & Conditions that Apple wasn’t affiliated with the contest/giveaway (we then added Google in there just to be safe on the Play store side as well).iOS App Store Tip #4: Test for iPads, even though you specify your app is for iOS phones only!When you submit your iOS app, you’re given the option to select whether you app should be also available for the tablets. One gotcha — even if you don’t check the checkbox, your app will still get rejected if the layouts don’t look right or if there are UI issues on the tablet form. I know this for a fact because I got rejected once and they screenshot they sent me was a screenshot of an iPad. So please, save the hassle of going back and forth and just check your app in an iPad!Play Store Tip #1: Look at the pre-launch report to ensure you don’t have any issues.After you upload your APK to the Play store, Google will automatically run your app against a few common devices to ensure there are no startup crashes. This is a recent feature that allows you, the developer, to check for any issues before releasing your app to the wild.Google will automatically run your uploaded build against common devices for crashes.Don’t be fooled though: it doesn’t completely run through all of the screens. If you want to do so, you’ll have to set up Firebase Test Lab (it’s easy to set up so I’d recommend checking it out). However, it’s a good start to ensure you don’t have any crashes.Play Store Tip #2: Use the Google Play release workflow to properly test your app.The problem with Android is that there’s a much wider range of phones and screen densities than with iPhones. Therefore, it’s wise to test your app on various devices, especially with smaller phones. The recommended workflow for this is to upload your APK (build artifact) to either Internal Test or Alpha or Beta first, then test your devices against the build, and then release to Production once you’ve tested and made sure everything is fine on older/smaller screen devices. If you’re confused about the difference between Internal Test/Alpha/Beta — don’t be. Internal Test is a track that only your team and contractors should have access to, while Alpha/Beta can be public builds that allow your users opt in to receive them before the general public. Production will be available to all users, so promote it to Production once you’re comfortable.Play Store Tip #3: For higher risk releases, don’t do a full 100% roll-out.If you have a bunch of stuff in a new release and would like to gauge reception/crash rates first, you can roll out your app to only a certain percentage of users. I’d say that if you have a large user base, it’s wise to roll out to 25% of your users first, then 50%, then 100%. That way you’re able to fix any issues as they come up.ConclusionSo there you have it folks — these are our tips on releasing to the App/Play stores. Do you have any tips? Write them in the comments!Shameless plug: If you are somewhat interested about cryptocurrency or curious about our app, head over to Altcoin Fantasy where you can play our sim game (and hopefully win some prizes) on the web and on Android / iOS.