
Coinbase has responded to New York Attorney General crypto Inquiry.Coinbase has responded to New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman crypto Inquiry. It transmitted the full response to the Office of the Attorney General via an encrypted end-to-end secure file exchange service.Mike Lempres, Coinbase’ chief legal and risk officer, wrote a five-page letter with abstracts from the full letter to the Office of the Attorney General.Coinbase has more than 300 employees that work in four offices and about 1,000 full-time personnel including dedicated contractors. About 20 percent employees work in the firm’s compliance division.Coinbase has received over $225 million in funding from venture capital and financial service firms.Coinbase is registered as a money service business with FinCEN since 2013 and has 41 licenses in 39 states. Crypto exchange holds a Bitlicense from New York State’s Department of Financial Services (“DFS”), the US only license specific to virtual currency regulation and supervision. Other states where Coinbase is licensed require Coinbase to report information and provide certain consumer disclosures about the virtual currency business activity on the platform.Coinbase supports Know Your Customer (“KYC”) and Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) programs. It is the only crypto company currently invited to participate in FinCEN’s Bank Secrecy Act Advisory Group (“BSAAG”).Coinbase experts conduct training and cooperate with law enforcement agencies, such as FBI, Drug Enforcement Agency, Marshals Service, Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Secret Service, Internal Revenue Service’s Criminal Investigative Division, Europol, Interpol, the Swiss Federal Police and other.Coinbase supports only four cryptocurrencies: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, and Bitcoin Cash.Coinbase did not provide financial information in the abridged version of the letter. But it disclosed that crypto exchange customers had traded more than $150 billion in assets on the platform.New York’s attorney general Eric Schneiderman has launched an initial probe into 13 cryptocurrency exchanges. He requested disclosures on their operations, use of bots, conflicts of interest, outages, and other issues.In March 2018, the number of monthly customer complaints against Coinbase increased more than 100% in January, to 889, according to Consumer Financial Protection Bureau data. More than 400 of those complaints were categorized as “money was not available when promised.”Kraken cryptocurrency exchanges made a statement that money-services business won’t affect its decision to ignore a request from the state’s top lawyer for detailed information about its operations.