
#L-PESABLOCKCHAIN MICROFINANCE METHODIntroductionThe market is wicked and does not have room for friendly gesture or emotion. Well, this wickedness or cruelty only affects the market but not applicable to consumers, as everything a consumer does involves a bit of emotion. Being an emotional entity in the market has its own merit and demerit. We always have a clear vision about what we want and stay focus until we achieve it in any way possible. The biases, beliefs and intentions define the nature of the job we are going to do in our life. The banking and financial institution of the world have made it clear that they stay only focus to their growth and has no care or love for the customers.Reaching out to everyone and offering them services that everyone else gets is not their priority. The developing countries are at the bottom of the food chain, where they do not have access to the time and resources that developed countries have. The time has come for the redistribution of attention towards people who need it the most, and not the people who have the most.This I don’t care policies of the government have to be changed, the alternative financial ecosystem has to be created, and a new world order of financial independency has to be achieved.The platform of L-Pesa is formed with the idea of bettering the lifes of people by providing them efficient access to the loan and other financial services. The very first service which is offered by L-Pesa is the service of micro lending.The L-Pesa further expects to launch its additional financial services that would appeal more customers towards its platform.The key to L-Pesa business platform isAn efficient loan origination process with a fully automated and online service.The updated platform with the current market scenario which is fully automated in nature for providing ease of work with high efficiency.Embedding the mobile money services providers so that distribution of loan will be efficient and even the collection of payment will be easy.There are four important market forces which are involved in the platform of L-Pesa areBiometric identityAlternative credit dataBig data, Blockchain and artificial intelligenceMobile technologyThe following are the benefits which are offered to the stakeholders of the L-Pesa modelThe shareholders and employees of the platform can earn a reasonable return on their labor & investment.The L-Pesa platform has provided access to the other financial services for the users so that their living could be improved.The L-Pesa 3rd party capital provider can invest in the platform and at last, they will be getting an attractive return.The partners who are currently involved with the platform of L-Pesa are MFS Africa, M-Pesa, True Africa, Airtel Money, and Tigo Pesa. In the coming years, it has a huge expectation of including more partner in its platform which will lead to more success of it.ICO INFORMATION AND TEAM1,350,000,000 LPK Tokens are available for the public sale which starts from the 18th April 2018 and continues for 30days. The Token Presale starts from 18th March 2018 and continues for 15 days, and total tokens reserved for the presale is 160,000,000. Funds collected from the ICO will be utilised for the development and marketing of the platform. The team is enthusiastic about the project and is ready to complete their mission.TEAMMORE INFO:WEBSITE:https://ico.lpesa.io/WHITEPAPER:https://kriptonofafrica.com/static/pdfs/L-Pesa%20ICO%20white%20paper%202018.pdfFACEBOOK:https://www.facebook.com/lpesaicoTWITTER:https://twitter.com/lpesaicoTELEGRAM:https://t.me/LpesaICO