
Why Warren Buffet has missed a trick with Bitcoin & other CryptocurrenciesThe Sage of Omaha — Warren Buffet is well known for not investing in anything he doesn't understand.Mr Buffet has been sceptical about bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies in various interviews and has said he will never invest in them because he doesn’t understand them.And that makes sense, doesn’t it? Nobody should invest in anything they don’t understand.In an interview with CNBC when asked if they would take a short position on the new bitcoin futures, Warren Buffet said;“We don’t own any, we’re not short any, we’ll never have a position in them,” he said. “I get into enough trouble with things I think I know something about,” he added. “Why in the world should I take a long or short position in something I don’t know anything about.”“I can say almost with certainty that [cryptocurrencies] will come to a bad ending.”So when I first looked into bitcoin and cryptocurrencies, my opinion was similar to Mr Buffet’s. After all, I’m an ex-stockbroker and so I understand investments and stocks and shares; and my first impression of bitcoin wasn’t particular favourable.But I’m a curious person. Now I don’t mean curious in that way; I mean I feel the need to look into new things; I’m curious about the things I don’t understand.So instead of being like Warren Buffet; I chose to proactively do my own research into bitcoin and the cryptocurrency market. I read books; I listened to podcasts; I watched videos on YouTube; I attended many bitcoin and blockchain events in London and across Europe; I read blog posts and Medium articles and slowly I began to understand the opportunity.I came to the conclusion that the cryptocurrency market and blockchain industry had massive potential. The more I delved deeper the more it felt like I was on the cusp of something incredibly exciting.The Great GoldrushIt felt like the great goldrush of the 1840s and 1850s. I truly didn’t think we would see anything like this in my lifetime.I had worked through the dotcom boom and bust of the early 2000s. I was working in a very successful UK domain name and web hosting business at the time. So I remember the buzz and hysteria around the tech stocks frenzy of the late 1990s and early 2000s.I started investing in cryptocurrencies in 2017 and it was an epic year! It was during this time that I learnt about ICOs and the power of positive disruption that blockchain had.So I began looking for the opportunities and in late 2017 and early 2018 I began looking to see the different businesses I could set up, and in March 2018 I decided to setup two new businesses;A medical devices and technology innovation ICO.A management consulting business focused on helping businesses create, set-up and launch their own ICO.Which brings me back to the title of this article. Of course, Warren Buffet is content. He doesn’t need to invest or speculate in bitcoin or cryptos, and he has stated his position quite clearly.However; it’s true. He has missed a trick. If Mr Buffet took the time to read, watch and research the cryptocurrency market; I’m convinced he would see what I and plenty of others have seen and he could carve himself a nice little niche in this space.