
TOKPIE Pre-Sale is Now Open!TOKPIE is a unique peer-to-peer (P2P) Cryptocurrency-Fiat and Swap Exchange designed to help people all over the world buy and sell any crypto-assets for transparent prices, nominated in any local currencies or altcoins, using any payment method, FREE of charge, safely and easily.By encapsulating different locations, currency pairs (crypto/fiat and crypto/crypto), and payment methods into unique tradeable instruments, TOKPIE supports peer-to-peer real-time auctions, price charting, price alerts and many other sophisticated tools, which cannot be provided by traditional crypto exchanges.TOKPIE is launching its pre-sale of the TKP token on May 1, 2018 with a hard cap of 1,000 ETH. The sale will continue until the hardcap is reached or until May 14, 2018. Tokens purchased during the pre-sale carry a 20% discount, and will be available at the rate of 1920 TKP for 1 ETH, with the minimum contribution being 100 TKP or .05208 ETH.What is TOKPIE’s TKP Token used for?The TOKPIE ecosystem is a closed micro economy in which TOKPIE Tokens (TKP) are held as proof of membership and exchanged for the services provided by the TOKPIE platform.Services offered on the platform that require TKP are:MembershipIn order to gain access to some advanced features on the TOKPIE platform, a member will need a minimum TKP balance. If a member does not already have TKP tokens to access membership, they can purchase TKP through the platform as part of their account setup, allowing for a more seamless entry into membership.We assume that about 50% of TOKPIE’s users will hold TKP on their balances to get access to advanced functionality. For example, one of the core services of the TOKPIE platform will be the ability to lend and accept P2P loans from other TOKPIE community users. Loans are one of the types of service that require holding TKP.Subscription Fee PaymentTOKPIE will set subscription fees on a tiered basis (Standard, Premium and Enterprise). The amount of the subscription fee will depend on the user’s monthly volume of trade. The cost of the subscription will be fixed to US dollars to make it consistently below the level of fees charged by other exchanges.There will be no fee for users whose monthly trading volume is below $100,000 equivalent, but for volume traders, there will be a monthly subscription which must be paid in TKP.Add-onsTOKPIE will be able to provide start-ups with special order books for their token pre-sale and main sale campaigns, as well as with a post-token sale listing on the TOKPIE platform. By using our solution, start-ups can save a lot of time and money by directly accessing TOKPIE’s user base. Companies can also purchase the listing on our exchange (after anti-scam validation). All Add-on services for companies looking to access TOKPIE’s community will require payment in TKP.In addition, users can purchase access to the more sophisticated tools or platform services by making a one-time TKP payment.Collateral and Interest FeesTOKPIE will provide the advantages of popular centralized exchanges by allowing users to utilize their coins, holding onto the account balances inside the platform for leverage and marginal trading.Users will also be able to get loans (fiat or crypto) from other users or to open short position (sell for fiat or crypto) with the leverage or long positions (buy for cryptocurrencies) with the margin using TKP tokens locked on the account balance as collateral. Interest for using this feature will be charged in TKP tokens.Why should you buy TOKPIE’s TKP Token?TKP tokens are highly integrated into TOKPIE’s business model and have significant, long-term utility in driving the growth of the platform. TOKPIE already have an MVP, and the full-blown platform will be released by Q12019. TKP are expected to be listed on other exchanges within 30 days of the TKP main sale closing which is scheduled for mid-July 2018.The market price will be determined by the free market when the TKP is listed on other exchanges as well as on the TOKPIE platform. The total number of tokens supplied is fixed and can be calculated as the (total number of tokens sold during the token sale)/0.65.TKP will be distributed to users through the token sale or as remuneration to users from TOKPIE reserves for support services provided to other users, participation in affiliate programs and other activities.