
How to Complete the Apex Token Fund KYC ProcessKYC stands for know your customer and is the business process of verifying the identity of your clients. This is a common practice for most financial institutions. AML stands for anti-money laundering and is in place to prevent raising funds from individuals who are noted on government lists for previous illicit activities.Apex KYC ProcessApex takes legal compliance very seriously, in order to better protect our investors. One of the ways we maintain compliance is by having our potential investors complete the KYC/AML process. Learn more about Tokensoft, our KYC processor here: https://www.coindesk.com/compliant-icos-bitcoin-ogs-launch-regulated-token-sale-service/1.Before investing in the Apex Token Fund, all potential investors must begin the process at https://apex.tokensoft.io.2. After visiting https://apex.tokensoft.io/ and creating an account, one must begin the identity verification process. To do this, click the Identity Verification box highlighted below.When completing the Identity Verification process, users will be asked for some basic personal information. Please make sure to input information in the valid format, for example birthdate as DD/MM/YYYY. If information is entered incorrectly, your account will be paused and you must reach out to community@apextokenfund.com to have this error fixed.After this information is inputted, our KYC provider will perform both a KYC and AML check. For KYC, user information is verified against public databases. For AML, information is checked against various watch lists.3. Depending on what country you are based in, after this you may also be asked to perform a document check. Users who must perform these checks will be asked to upload valid identification, to compare to the details provided. For a full list of accepted documents by country, go to https://info.onfido.com/supported-documents.The most common reasons for the document check to fail are poor image quality and the presence of watermarks or timestamps. The uploaded document must be an original photo and not a scanned or altered image. If either of these occur, the image will not be approved, and you will be notified of an error. In this case, you will be emailed and asked to re-upload a new picture of your document.Identity verification can take 2–3 business days to be approved.4. Once Identity verification has been completed, some users will have to complete the investor verification form as well. This is based on country of origin, as some countries have additional requirements like being an accredited investor. To complete this section, click the button labeled “Investor Verification.”Investor verification can also take 2–3 business days to complete. If you have been waiting for longer than this and have not heard back, email community@apextokenfund.com to have your account issues checked.Learn More:Join our Telegram communityJoin our announcements channelFollow us on TwitterFollow our BlogLike us on FacebookJoin our Reddit community.