
Brickblock Next Strong project — 100x icoCurrently, Every crypto investor or trader is having huge volatile exposure in Cryptocurrencies. It may gain or loss a lot in a single day. Some times investors are able to gain 10x fold, but with more expectation they may hold further more period then that will ultimately results in loosing entire wealth. Currently, Cryptocurrency is treated as store of value and it also has a characteristic of medium of exchange but as of now it is in nascent phase. To escape from the risk, the only option is available for the investors is to convert Cryptocurrency to Fiat currency. With this much of risk involved in Cryptocurrencies it is necessary that the investors are need to diversify their risk by eliminating systematic risk and investing in low beta class(beta represents risk) investments like REFs and ETFs outside the cryptmarkets. But at present in traditional stock markets the process of investing, deposits, and withdrawls are very complex and it involves lot of cost, fee, understanding of market, Delay in execution, limited access based on geo location and foriegn exchange problems.Brickblock claims to represent the future of blockchain-based trading. Find out how it works today in our Brickblock review.What Is Brickblock:Brickblock helps cryptocurrency investors counterbalance price volatility by allowing them to directly purchase real-world assets — like ETFs and real estate funds — without needing to convert money into fiat.In other words, Brickblock lets you diversify your investment portfolio by using cryptocurrency to purchase real-world assets and funds.Obviously, volatility is a major issue in the world of cryptocurrency. Brickblock plans to solve it. That’s why the platform is calling itself “the future of trading on the blockchain.”Let’s take a closer look at how Brickblock works.How Brickblock Work?Brickblock offers a simple way to hedge your cryptocurrency portfolio against volatility. The Brickblock platform allows you to convert cryptocurrencies into real-world assets — like ETFs and REFs (aka REITs) without incurring excessive fees typical for conventional exchanges.Ordinarily, to buy conventional funds with cryptocurrencies, you would need to incur fees by switching into fiats and working through an alternative exchange. Brickblock believes they’ve created a better option.The entire platform is built on the Ethereum blockchain. Instead of waiting 2 to 3 days to transfer funds into fiat and then purchase assets in a conventional market, your trade can be completed within minutes — specifically, your trade will be completed within the time it takes to complete a few Ethereum block confirmations.Brickblock has another advantage over a conventional exchange: you don’t need a bank account to participate in the platform.The secret power behind Brickblock is its decentralized app (DApp) infrastructure running on the Ethereum network.Broker-dealers and fund managers can list investment opportunities on the Brickblock platform. Each opportunity will be thoroughly verified by Brickblock before being listed. Brickblock will use things like proof of residence, credit reports, and a criminal record check to verify opportunities. Then, based on their personal risk/reward ratio, investors can choose investments from Brickblock’s selection of available funds.Brickblock emphasizes a transparent approach to trading. All fees, minimum investment pools, exchange rates, holding periods, net asset values, dividends, and coupon payments are clearly listed through the platform. Users can easily see how much everything costs.Team?Founders: Martin Mischke (Co-Founder) and Jakob Drzazga (Co-Founder).Martin is the co-founder and ex-CFO of Bitwala, the popular blockchain-based payment service provider for remittance and international currency transfers. Mischke is also the co-founder of Bitcoins Berlin and runs Transistor, Germany’s largest fintech co-working space.Drzazga, meanwhile, is a real estate developer who sees an opportunity to disrupt the real estate industry using a decentralized marketplace.The company launched in 2017. Before the end of the year, they hope to complete a testnet release, finalize their smart contract structure, build partnerships, and develop the full Brickblock platform.ICO InformationHard cap: $50 million USDMax potential supply: 320,000,000 BBKMax circulating supply: 145,500,000 BBKTokens for sale: 75,500,000 BBKToken price: $0.60 USDTechnical specifications: ERC20 tokenToken sale date: May 9thToken sale time: 13:00 UTCSale duration: 7 days (or once hard cap is reached)Features:Invest In Coin Funds:Brickblock lets users invest in coin funds, which means they can invest in a variety of cryptocurrency assets in a single transaction. You can buy a basket of cryptocurrency funds, and avoid the volatility of investing in just one or two cryptocurrencies.Invest In ETFs:ETFs let you invest in entire indices or industries with just one share. The ETF represents a basket of stocks, bonds, and commodities. Brickblock lets you invest in ETFs through the platform.Invest In Real Estate Funds:Invest in real estate funds around the world. The Brickblock website claims that a trusted fund manager will invest in real estate in various parts of the world — like the US, Asia, and Europe. Then, all income from those leases will be transferred directly into your Ethereum wallet.24/7 Trading:Brickblock will offer 24/7 trading to eliminate the big price spread of assets and eliminate market volatility after markets close.Invest Without Borders:Brickblock doesn’t require a bank account. You can invest without a bank account, and the blockchain does not discriminate between geographical restrictions.Faster And More Cost-Efficient:Modern clearing and settlement can take 2 to 3 days. Brickblock takes just a few minutes — the time it takes to clear a few Ethereum confirmations.100% Asset Backed:All real-world assets are physically stored and only claimable by the proof of asset token holder. Dividend payouts are linked only to self-executing auditable smart contracts.Transparent:The Brickblock platform is fully transparent. All movements will be trackable, and trader accounts have an API to track their performance.Secure:Asset-backed tokens allow holders to switch the risk of cryptocurrencies into real assets without having to exchange them into a cryptocurrency, giving investors enhanced security.Brickblock ConclusionBrickblock is an Ethereum-based investment platform that offers cryptocurrency fund investment, ETF investing, and real estate fund investing. Using Brickblock, you can invest in cryptocurrencies and conventional funds through one convenient interface and marketplace. You can hedge the volatility of cryptocurrencies by placing a portion of your account into a conventional asset — like index-tracking funds or US real estate funds.To learn more about Brickblock and how it works, visit the platform online today at Brickblock.io.