
My experience with Crypto Brahma and his Moon Club.I would like to share with you my experiences with Moon Club. A paid Discord group of Crypto Brahma. A self-proclaimed gem finder of altcoins.TL;DR- In Moon Club you don’t get calls. You hardly get anything, really.- What you do get, is also being shared by Crypto Brahma in his free group and Twitter.- Crypto Brahma is clearly not an altcoin trader. He is an investor. Don’t expect to get call to make short term gains.- Crypto Brahma is full of empty promises. He never delivers when he announces something.- Crypto Brahma is a very poor communicator and arrogant.- Crypto Brahma cannot be bothered with questions from his customers.Who is Crypto Brahma?Crypto Brahma got famous in the crypto twitter community by being one of the first to publicly call the altcoin Raiblocks (now called NANO). He shared this call sometime at the end of October 2017: “My best of all gem picks. This is going to have an epic run when it does. Accumulate in bits and pieces. 50x+ by end of December 2018”Now, everybody deep into altcoins know what an INSANE run Nano went on. From around $0.1 at the time of the call to an all time high of $33.75 on january 6, 2018. It was waaaaay beyond Brahma’s own expectations as well, as you can see from his comment.During the same period, Brahma also called #BLUE which gave a 10.000% return in USD. Oh, what fun we had during that parabolic bull market. It seemed everyone turned into a “guru” those days, cause which coin didn’t go crazy?!Brahma however seized this opportunity and amped up his social media efforts. He is very active on Twitter and now has over 30K twitter followers, does AMA’s with crypto projects,has access to lucrative ICO deals and has a free Telegram (now Discord) group with over 800 members.Moon Club. The exclusive Discord group of Crypto BrahmaCrypto Brahma also runs a paid group, called Moon Club. This is where he shares his signals/gems first (after, I’m assuming, accumulating these alts for a good period himself first). This group has a waiting list. He only allows 35 members each month. If too many people get in, it will become a pump and dump, according to him. A sound approach.The group costs 0.06 BTC a month, which makes it one of the most expensive crypto groups around. This investment is easily worth it when Brahma’s keeps making calls like NANO.However, being a member of Crypto Brahma’s Moon Club doesn’t feel like you’re in space shuttle on its way to crypto heaven. On the contrary, you’ll be playing the waiting game. Sitting on the motorway, waiting for signals that never come. And when you take a look outside your space shuttle, you see your own captain Brahma do giving away signals. On his Twitter account. For everybody to see. For free….Crypto Brahma shares the content of Moon Club in his free group and Twitter as well.Being confronted with this in Moon Club, Brahma would say that this was a mistake. He shouldn’t have done this. And that it was a risky trade that his paid members should not necessarily follow. OK, an honest mistake made by man who is running a paid group for more than 8 months…Oh well, we paid for the group, so let’s forgive and forget.You don’t do any trading in Moon ClubDuring strong bear markets every play is risky. It may even be better to not do anything. But good crypto traders still know how to make money. Between february and march, we saw people making great returns with ICON, Storm, QLQ, TRON.These coins all gave at least 150% in 3 weeks. And all of these coins have good fundamentals (exception TRON maybe). So typical coins Brahma could call, right? No way, too risky for the man.What about small gainers of 10–40% that we see happening every week? Not for Brahma. Why? No idea. Well, perhaps because he doesn’t have time for his paid group. The man is constantly active on Twitter, in his free group, being busy with other business projects and enjoying holidays. Putting in the work for 35 members that each pay 0.06 BTC per month is just not worth it to him.What he does do is give empty promises. Lot’s of em. He would give a market update, strategy advice, etc. People in the group were basically begging for this subpar content, cause if you can’t make money with Moon Club you at least want to learn from Brahma. And people kept on reminding him. With no results. (see screenshots)https://ufile.io/l1op8https://ufile.io/jprvjMoon Club members are left in the cold.Crypto Brahma is busy with a lot of projects, except for his Moon Club. In between booking holidays and being sick, he is also working on an Udemy course on bitmex / marging trading. For research, he held 4 live sessions to guide people on marging trading and get questions that he could incorporate in his course. The first session was for his paid members. Even though, the audio quality was crap it was useful for some members. Not for everybody though, cause us being from all over the world not all could attend at the set time.It happens. No problem. Because you’d think, Brahma would give his paying members a second chance to join one of his other sessions. No way! Not in the world of Crypto Brahma. That’s for his other (free) followers. You’ve had your chance. Just set your alarm at 3 am. Yes…Brahma is probably one of those people that don’t tip either.Now, if he’s feeling like it, Brahma does sometimes open his DM box on Discord, so you can share your concerns privately. He will then kindly thank you for your feedback.You should not @mention Crypto Brahma in his own group…What do you mean, ‘open his DM?’ Well, if you have the the guts to @mention Brahma in the group, he gets angry. One should not bother him when he is not online. How dare you?! So only during a specifically set moment you may disturb the man.Will he do something with the feedback that is given to him? No way. One does not comment on the way Crypto Brahma acts. You are a member of Moon Club! A group where you pay, obey and shut your mouth. The community is totally quiet. No one says a thing. It’s ridiculous. Members have seen people being kicked out after questioning Brahma. People are now afraid to speak.To quote someone who left his group in February: “He makes you feel stupid for asking a question.” Especially in regards to his bitmex stuff, Brahma doesn’t want to explain his “methods”. He writes vague signals and if you ask a question about it, he replies with: “see above”.Good points about Moon ClubTo be fair, it wasn’t all bad. Brahma did put some focus on bitmex trading. During a bear market, that’s a good way to make money. A riskier one that altcoin trading though. When you get liquidated, you lose it all. It’s not for everybody and certainly not the reason why people signed up for Moon Club. He made some good margin calls though — that everybody could follow on Twitter as well…And he did give his group another month for free after not giving any signals or fundamental analyses in march. But…what does it mean if the following month he stays just as inactive? People pay to get value, to learn. Not to sit and wait until Brahma feels like he wants to do something.After more empty promises, and people asking for content, some members in Moon Club finally raised their voice. They shared their concerns and asked their money back. Suddenly Brahma came online again. Arisen from the dead. After being absent for 3 days, he interacted with his customers.The ones that asked for a refund would get it and would be banned from the group within 30 minutes. After 2 minutes, the time was already up. Boy, for the first time we saw Brahma being active, talking, making decisions, executing, living up to his own words…https://ufile.io/zy5v6Hold on, it even gets crazier. After the uproar in the group, he started giving signals. Right away! Yeah that’s right. After kicking out the “complainers”, he said he would from now on give signals that would give 20% profits for sure. Within an hour he had 4 calls ready. He must have had a look at coin calendar, picked some coins that had upcoming events, used that as his reasoning, gave a buy price just below market price and, hmm, well let’s add 50% as a selling price. The maestro was done.Example of a signal given on April 5th:XLR / DYOR / Kucoin1) Zerocoin protocol activation ~April 182) Buy below 86k; sell >98k (T1)3) Currently in accumulation zoneThe next time you see Brahma posting a Tweet like this, you know he shared this in his Moon Club and he needs it to pump.https://twitter.com/Crypto_Brahma/status/982224233160785920Oh, did Brahma give the refund? What do you think….? Well surprisingly he did. Sort of… It took him 11 days instead of the promised 7, and people had to send him multiply reminders. In the end he returned some members 83% of the fee, and others 42% (for some inexplicable reason).The future of Moon Club looks even worse.I bet Brahma’s activity will be a short spell though. Brahma has proven time and time again that he is man of failed promises. Why would he suddenly change? Because there was some complaints in his group that he smashed down with quickly? After a week, it’s back to being his absent-and-arrogant self again.And see the updates he posted between april 5 and 12.https://ufile.io/lz3u7The man still hasn’t shared his major signals update and is now going on ANOTHER holiday, leaving his group in the cold. (oh btw: several Moon Club members forward me the “content”, cause they dislike Brahma but don’t want to ask for a refund afraid they won’t get it.)Liars don’t change, especially lazy ones.Everybody knows how hard it is to change one self. To change such an integral part of one’s character (being truthful) takes a lot of work and time. Perhaps if this was real life, Brahma would act upon these warning signs. But this crypto. A world where everybody is anonymous. Why would he change and for who!?Brahma clearly does neither have the time and interest to run a paid group. Perhaps he doesn’t need the money and his interests lie somewhere else. I understand, who’s want to answer the same old questions from nOObs every month, again and again.My thoughts on Moon ClubYou can say my opinion is very short sighted and negative. Perhaps. I came to know Brahma through his public work. He definitely brings value to the crypto community. I made money on his calls. But his lack of character is very disappointing.I don’t regret joining Moon Club. Now I know what it’s like. For some people, it might still be a useful group.If you decide to join Moon Club, do realize that Brahma is not a trader. He did really well with 2 insane calls during a parabolic bull market last year. What happened since?If you want to invest in gems. Well… you can find them anywhere online. Just do some research. Or join Brahma’s free group. It will save you at least 0.06 BTC ;-)PS: To pre-address comments I expect to get:- I know it’s very hard to trade in a bear market.- I know Brahma can give some good bitmex calls. - I know that “crypto gurus” can’t guarantee their calls will do well.- I was not in Brahmas group for just the signals, I actually wanted to get a better understanding on crypto projects from a person who portrays to understand the tech behind it.I have been in other paid groups. The most value I got from them went beyond the calls. It came from being part of a community: other members who are enthusiastic about crypto, who help and teach each other and with whom you can just talk shit with as well. All of that can’t be found in Moon Club.