
A Decentralized Gaming PlatformThe most booming and largest lucrative promising market today all over the world is the gaming industry. From records it was discovered that almost three million people are really into the business of gaming, making a lot of money from the business. Despite all these are a lot of problems that they face, which is the area of spending too much money on the improvement of their competitive skills to boost their winning rate, buying of certain skins, improvement of their characters etc through the centralized payment system platform. To put an end to all these, a team of expert came up with the idea of Flux. Flux is a world class platform for monetizing any game for every player and any developer with the use of the Blockchain technologies. Flux is a decentralized gaming ecosystem that brings together all aspect of gaming enterprise. The Flux platform provides users the big opportunity to get rewarded for matchmaking competitions, marketing items on the marketplace.WEBSITEThe investors and the developers will also get reward. This unique platform is a global market in the gaming space that has the objective to build an ecosystem that will be profitable to the users and the stakeholders of the platform. The Flux ecosystem gives every user the enablement to take part in different games that are made accessible and they can as well earn cool cash after every successful win. Some of the benefits of the Flux platform to the players are: Players will have the opportunity to become richer and richer by making real money using their gaming skills, users will have access to mobile game support, the platform is also user friendly, it is a hitch free platform, no stress, all players transactions are hundred percent secured as a result of the decentralized system. Users can view all advertised games. . For the developers, they can easily create their account, they can verify games as fast as possible, they can earn money from each game and they will always have the backing and the support of the Flux team. The traders can also benefit in the sense that they can buy and trade digital skins using the platform tokens. Each purchase on the Flux ecosystem will be administered immediately by the network server and the product or the service will be credited to the gamers account immediately. While the players compete among themselves and generate their prize money in the game using the Matchmaking platform, buy and sell items related to the game, using the Flux trading platform, or buying goods in the Flux app store, the developer that uploaded and verified their game on the developer market, Flux receives a portion of the commission taken by the platform from transactions and bets. The Flux platform intends to use the live streaming broadcast that will allow any user that stream live any game to earn great rewards. Flux network will allow every person to earn rewards depending on the number of times they view games on the streaming broadcast platform. The users will receive extra cash by engaging in a variety of tasks during the game. As a user when you refer a friend into the platform, you will also earn a reward from the platform and at the same time receive a percentage from all of their game sessions. The Flux network will be made accessible for Windows, MarcOs, Linux, Windows iphone, iOS and the Android platforms soon. The Flux platform has a token called FLUX. The token is built on the Ethereum Blockchain. The token is an ERC20 compatible token. The flux token is the key to all the services of the platform. The initial coin offering of the Flux token will commence on the 17th of April, 2018 and it will end on the 24th of April, 2018. During the token sale, 1Flux token will be equivalent to 0.5 dollars. The currencies that will be used during the token sale are ETH, BTC, USDT, DASH, ETC, LTC, ZEC, VISA, MASTER CARD, USD, EUR, SHAPESHIFT, BNB and KCS. WHITEPAPERThere are a lot of bonuses waiting. So register and start claiming your bonus. Get set to become richer via the Flux platform. Some of the road map of the platform is the listing of the Flux token on the exchanges in May, 2018 and there will be the release of developer market and mobile customer trade in the third quarter of 2018.For more information about the platform, visit the link below:WEBSITETWITTERFACEBOOKTELEGRAMMEDIUMINSTAGRAMBTTAUTHORBTT