
My Journey Through the Crypto SpaceIt was April of 2017 and my car had been vandalized. So I called an old friend for a ride to work. At the end of the ride he had asked me if I have been doing any investing. I had some money saved up and and I was thinking about where I wanted to invest. He starts talking about this emerging technology called the Blockchain. It is essentially a motor for decentralization. The specific digital currency he was talking about was called ethereum. It had seen massive gains since the start of the year. I thought these gains were absolutely insane! The price had shot from $2 all the way up $300 in a very short amount of time. I was skeptical to say the least. I remember hearing about Bitcoin when I was in high school, but I never took the time to learn about the technology behind the infamous currency (huge regret).This wasn’t the investment he wanted to talk about, though. We had a friend in common that was just entering a funding round for a large scale mining operation. So this digital currency has a physical aspect to it? This all seems so futuristic and interesting! Down the rabbit hole I went into cryptocurrency and distributed ledger technology. It didn’t seem like it that day, but I will be forever thankful for the person that vandalized my car.Litecoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Bitcoin, and Namecoin posted in an art gallery.So I didn’t quite know exactly where I wanted to invest. After some thought, I decided to allocate some of my funds towards my friends mining company. This would mitigate some of my risk at the start and still let me have some skin in the game while I learn more about the market and make my investment strategy. This stuff was all very new to me. So I started to learn more about the technology and learned that there is a whole whack of cryptocurrencies out there. I had set up a meeting with a buddy of mine to go over how to invest in the market. What exchanges to use, how to get the money onto the site. All of this fun stuff. Now all I had to do is pull the trigger. I sent my first bank draft later than month.Fast forward to now and I have started my own mining and investing company and have become well versed in the distributed ledger technology. I wanted to make sure that my journey was documented so I thought I would start putting out content about my love of crypto and the technology space in general. I hope that through this practice I will be able to see my growth and reflect on my strategies. So here goes! My very first medium post. Looking forward to talking about emerging technologies and the cryptocurrency space!