
An interview with the Bit.Tube Development TeamI decided to learn more about Bit.Tube. This is an interview with the Bit.Tube Development Team. Enjoy reading and share on social media if you like or learn from this interview.Could you describe in one sentence what Bit.Tube is?Bit.Tube is a revolutionary ad-free video platform in which publishers can earn money with their content from the first moment their content is accessed.Could you describe the vision of team Bit.Tube on Crypto markets?In order for a blockchain system to function a cryptocurrency is necessary, in that sense our vision is to deliver a user-focused platform which respects freedom and privacy, then is up to people to evaluate its coin. Our goal is to establish a recognizable image for a quality content place build with trust, no censorship applied. A platform that delivers truth in a trustless environment. Another aspect is that Bit.Tube is one of the easiest ways to get into the crypto world, without having to go through exchanges or even without paying a cent, just a click away in your browser. We want to show to the world how crypto creates new possibilities for everyone on the internet.What value brings Bit.Tube to users of the platform?In a technical manner, the platform makes everyone’s computer an asset while satisfying his needs for information and entertainment. Users benefit from seamlessly distributed content and a playground for sharing their production with a fair reward system and no fear of censorship. Every feature of the platform is set to be intuitive and user-friendly along with a transparent earning system for content creators, viewers and miners. All the above will ensure long-term adoption and create a network effect.What strengths and features bring this value?Bit.Tube integrates the IPBC cryptocurrency ecosystem, where new coins are generated directly by users while watching videos. In this way, the distribution of the revenues is much fairer. Moreover, Bit.Tube relies on the IPBC peer-to-peer distributed network, which uses the IPFS protocol, for hosting and distributing videos: like this, Bit.Tube helps people worldwide to exercise their right to free speech and avoid censorship. Last but not least, Bit.Tube is community driven: it means that users collectively have the power to influence the direction in which the project will grow.What kind of projects do you see as competitors and how do you differentiate between them?At first, it looks like our competitors do the same as Bit.Tube, but at the second glance you realize that we have integrated our features in the user-friendliest way possible so users will not need to download any software or go and buy another cryptocurrency in order to pay for accessing content. Platforms like Viewly, Flixxo or Videocoin are bringing ad-based models to the blockchain, and in others like LBRY the users are paying with coins or tokens for accessing the content. At IPBC, while a content is watched, a small portion of the GPU/CPU power is used to mine IPBC coins as a reward for the content owner.What is the role of IPBC in relation to Bit.Tube as a project for parties involved?IPBC is the company and the system on which Bit.Tube is developed. IPBC is running the coin and building the technical infrastructure. Also, IPBC will build other products which can work in addition to Bit.Tube or branded Bit.Tube for companies.Can you tell us about important developments yet to come and why they are important?We will do end of April an update of the user interface. This new user interface works across all devices, so one system for all. We implement a YouTube connector which is using the YouTube API. With this connector, the user can copy their complete channel to Bit.Tube with just a mouse click. This makes it easy for small YouTubers to get immediately a channel with revenue possibilities and for bigger YouTubers to extend the numbers of viewers with a second revenue string in addition to the YouTube income.The new Bit.Tube will work without a software to install on your device, this eases the step to go to Bit.Tube instead of other existing platforms.