
ICO listings: why do they matter?First of all, ICO listings are part of the project’s advertising: they allow the company to demonstrate its strengths to investors and crypto-currency specialists. On the other hand, they show the flaws and help deal with their correction. This is in a way an exhibition of ICO, in which bad projects can receive negative feedback, and strong ones become noticed and acquire loyal audience. Good project evaluations on the listing do not guarantee future success of the project, but in most cases, community is not mistaken.As you know, good project should meet the following criteria:- Prove the validity of the ICO to potential investors- Disclose plans for the development of the project and conduct an open dialogue with potential investors.- Start ICO with a clear understanding of how many funds you need to attract.- Introduce the team and participate in the life of cryptocommunity.The idea of the project should be simple and understandable. Complicated and multifaceted projects are likely to end at development stage. The creation of “killers” of Facebook, Apple, McDonald’s is very tempting, but how likely is it that the start-up will be able to defeat the largest players in the market in a competitive struggle? This might happen, but the probability is small. A detailed description of what the attracted funds will be spent on is a big plus, but it is quite rare.All this information can be found in the project profile on major listings. Rating bots carefully check and filter the information about the investor’s projects. Often it is on the listings that the first meeting of crypto-enthusiasts with projects takes place. The listings help new investors to choose the most interesting and promising projects of all.Also, popular listings are an excellent marketing tool for interesting projects, and high rating there is a good achievement.Check out Gastery profiles on famous listings and join the project!https://foundico.com/ico/gastery.htmlhttps://icobench.com/ico/gastery