
Mike’s weekend message to QUOINE community (April 21st, 2018)Dear QUOINERS,I hope you are having a wonderful weekend.Last thursday, I had the honor to do a fireside chat with Tim Draper at the B2B Summit 2018 in Tokyo. Tim predicted that the price of bitcoin was going to be USD250K by 2022. That is about 28x from the price today (USD9K/BTC).I said I can’t predict the price if BTC today or tomorrow, but strongly believe it will be USD500K in 5 years….yes, I am that bullish.It might take more than 5 years but it will be that high one day.Nothing will stop bitcoin, crypto, and the token economy.Please Kindly find my weekly update below.1. Token ListingsWe had 2 token listings this week:- WIN token: WAWLLET is the world’s first multi-asset wallet and personal financial passport. It connects people, banks and financial services, both traditional and new, and will change the way people think about and control their money, assets and personal digital identity. Steemit: https://bit.ly/2J0oswd Medium: https://bit.ly/2qAZVWH- Earth token: Natural Capital is the world’s stock of natural resources. The Natural Asset Exchange blockchain platform and EARTH Token cryptocurrency provides a unique opportunity to truly transform the Natural Capital Asset market, by creating a Natural Asset Marketplace that allows all stakeholders in the climate value chain to participate. Steemit: https://bit.ly/2qOkTBB Medium: https://bit.ly/2JX3e3DFor April Week 4 on QRYPTOS, we are planning on listing 3 tokens:- FintruX (FTX): FintruX Network is a blockchain based online ecosystem connecting borrowers, lenders, and rated service agencies. FintruX facilitates marketplace lending in a true peer-to-peer network to ease the cash-flow issues of small businesses and startups. Learn more at www.fintrux.com- FUSION (FSN): FSN is a public blockchain devoting itself to creating an inclusive cryptofinancial platform by providing cross-chain, cross-organization, and cross-datasource smart contracts. Learn more at https://fusion.org- The Proxeus Token (XES) is the utility token for Proxeus, the Wordpress for blockchain applications. Proxeus is used to design, publish and distribute workflows and documents which are registered on smart contracts. Learn more at https://proxeus.com/2. Product DevelopmentNo significant announcement on product development as we are gearing towards end of April when we will deploy the Multi-Market Order, which is part of the first phase of LIQUID. Also with our new Chief Design Officer Jon Myers settling in, I am excited about our new UX for the unified LIQUID Platform.3. Marketing / Community3.1. Events:- I participated in the B2B Summit 2018 in Tokyo and did a fireside chat with Tim Draper to discuss “The current status and future of Cryptocurrency” See: https://twitter.com/MikeKayamori/status/986868417977307137 Learn more about this event at: https://www.b2bsummit.biz- I was also a speaker at the New Economy Summit in Tokyo recently (https://nest.jane.or.jp/en/), and was interviewed by CNBC: https://twitter.com/MikeKayamori/status/986965982185959424- Our Chief Design Officer Jon Myers presented at Bangkok’s Tokenomx on April 18–19 in Chiang Mai Thailand. He will be speaking on the topic of product and design for crypto assets. Learn more about this event at https://tokenomx.com/- Our VP of Marketing Katherine Ng presented at SUSS Global Inclusive Blockchain Conference in Singapore on the topic of “Utility or security — the trend of token structures” on April 17 and on the topic of “Decentralized Storage and Exchanges” on April 18: https://twitter.com/QUOINE_SG/status/986197899259400192 Learn more about this event at: https://sussblockchain.com3.2. Community:- IMPORTANT NOTICE:QUOINERs, please be vigilant. Scammers on Telegram have been pretending to be QUOINE support and admins in order to get you to hand over your email addresses. They then send an email that looks like it is from support@quoine.com asking you to send funds to a crypto address to rectify an issue. Please carefully check any emails you receive and always be on the lookout for red flags. Our Community Managers will never ask you to send funds for any issue or matter. Admins will also never initiate direct message contact with you.- New Twitter AccountLast week, I created my own Twitter account at https://twitter.com/MikeKayamori. I am really looking forward to interacting more with the QUOINE community. I would like to use this platform to give my updates about crypto, LIQUID, the World Book, QASH and much much more!- QASH Rewards Program: For the month of April, QASH Rewards Program welcomes all written articles under the theme of: “The launch of the LIQUID platform and World Book Beta”. Since the beginning of April, we have received 1121 submissions for Twitter retweets and 56 articles under the written content category. We are looking forward to receive more and more content under this theme from our dear QUOINERS. IMPORTANT: Please note that all submissions must adhere to our guidelines for UTM tracking links so that your articles are qualified for QASH Rewards and we can track any traffic that comes from your articles: https://bit.ly/2pWB6oM Learn more on our Steemit and Medium blog posts: Steemit: https://bit.ly/2H6NgTB Medium: https://bit.ly/2GsGu9y3.3. AMAs:Last Wednesday, Chief People Officer Jason Wagner hosted an AMA to give QUOINERS a sneak peek into how we are growing QUOINE with the right people, processes and culture. I hope you enjoyed Jason’s insights. You can watch the AMA at: https://www.facebook.com/QUOINE.SG/videos/1487544144690830/Read the AMA’s key takeaways on our blogs: Steemit: https://bit.ly/2HCuqGr Medium: https://bit.ly/2HKt0r7You can expect more AMAs from our CXOs in the next couple of weeks. We would like to familiarize our QUOINERS with the names and faces of the key people at QUOINE who are making QUOINE the world-leading provider of fintech services in the cryptocurrency space.Next week, you will hear from our Chief Information Security Officer Mike Mullins. Mike has over 30 years of experience in Global Network Security, Operations, Management, Security Engineering and Implementation working for both the U.S. Federal Government and multi-national fortune 250 companies. Please stay tuned for this AMA!4. Operations / Customer Support4.1. Operations:The next phase of Iron Shield was rolled out this week:QUOINE has implemented internal controls that require 2 people to make changes to client account email and 2FA settings.This maker/checker workflow protects client’s from the risk of takeover by external hackers or internal rogue actors.In addition we have streamlined the process of account setting changes to make the process happen in a few minutes removing the dependency on our Engineering teams empowering our Client Champions to serve our clients faster with less friction.We will continue to improve our operations.4.2. Customer Support:On customer support tickets, we solved 15,289 tickets in Manila and 3,218 tickets in Vietnam this week.Our average Ticket Handling Time was below.- English Tier 1 — First Response within 3.3 hours- English Tier 2 — First Response within 10.3 hours- English Tier 3 — First Response within 44 hoursWhat I am most proud of was that our Satisfaction Rating was 88%, highest ever. We are doing much better than before but I know we can still improve.That’s all for this week.Please have a wonderful weekend.Mike Kayamori