
Blockport Beta Access ContestThe Blockport open beta is coming up, and our waiting list is growing extremely fast. If you would like to secure a spot as one of the early access users of the new platform, we have something great in store for you: the Blockport Beta Access Contest. To become an early user and get priority access, we would like you to spread the word about Blockport. In turn, we are offering the top 500 participants access to our open beta, whilst rewarding the top 100 participants with a fair amount of BPT. First place takes home 5,000 BPT. In this article we will explain the structure of the campaign and will show you how to participate.Priority AccessThe goal of this contest is to spread the word about Blockport, whilst ensuring that our most dedicated community members get a chance to partake in the launch of our open beta platform. We will reward the top 500 most active participants with priority access to the open beta. These will be among the first users to test out (and benefit from) the new platform! People currently on our waiting list will automatically be added to the campaign with 500 extra bonus points. They have already been invited to the campaign, and as of reading, you won’t be able to claim this bonus by still registering for the general waiting list.If you missed out on the waiting list bonus, there’s still an option for you to claim bonus points. If you join the contest through the invite link in the pinned post in our Telegram community channel, you will receive an additional 250 points added to your account.Join our Telegram to claim bonus.Note: The Blockport Open Beta only allows for Euro deposits. Please understand that we are working hard to add more fiat pairings but that we won’t add these during the Blockport Open Beta. You may still access the contest and are eligible for the other prizes, but you may not be able to take full advantage of access to the Blockport Open Beta if you do not have the ability to deposit Euro onto the platform.How does it work?Register yourself on the contest page to join the Beta Access Contest. To participate in the campaign, earn points and move up in the leaderboard. All that we ask from you is to perform social activities and refer your friends. This is the point structure of our contest:Accepted referral — 250 ptsBlockport Instagram follow — 100 ptsBlockport Facebook page like — 100 ptsFacebook post share — 50 ptsBlockport Twitter follow — 100 ptsTwitter share — 50 ptsSubscribe to our YouTube channel — 100 ptsWatch YouTube video — 50 ptsPS: As opposed to our previous bounty campaign, the points you earn during the Beta Access Contest are NOT equal to BPT. They are only a measure of activity. Only the top 100 contestants will be rewarded with BPT.Prize StructureHaving priority access is on its own already a great reason to take part in the contest. However, we would like to incentivize you with some extra prizes. We have allocated 27,500 BPT to reward our top 100 promoters. If that seems different from what we previously announced, it’s because we have increased the prizepool since our previous announcement! Here is the updated prize structure of the contest:We will also give away Blockport merchandise like Blockport branded laptop stickers, t-shirts and other apparel to our top 50 contestants!RuntimeThe Blockport Beta Access Contest will run for a minimum amount of two weeks from the start of the contest and will be ended one day before the release of the open beta. This is not to say that the open beta will be released in two weeks, as this has yet to be determined. When the Blockport Beta Access Contest ends, the top 500 at that given moment will be invited to the Blockport open beta.Ready?So, are you ready to spread the word about Blockport? Join the Beta Access Contest now and start sharing.Join the contest here!P.S. We have recently added more ways to win BPT. In line with our Beta Access Contest, we also run a monthly Community Content Contest in which you can win up to 3.000 BPT by creating custom content to celebrate our Beta 1.0 launch. Have a look at the Community Contest Medium article for more information.