
DML Token Generation Event (TGE) Important UpdateDay 2 of TGE Starts on 17 April, at 16:00 UTC +0Dear DML Community,Thanks a lot for your support to our Token Generation Event. We would like to update with you about our TGE.We are in the first 24 hours of TGE. Until now, only less than half of our tokens are available for sale. The Team appreciated all the support from our Community.The total duration of our TGE is only 6 days, or when the tokens are sold out, whichever is earlier. Please refer below for the start and end time.Start: 16-Apr, 2018 16:00 UTC +0End: 22-Apr, 2018 16:00 UTC +0Duration: 6 days, or when tokens are sold out, whichever is earlierUnsold Token Will Not Be Generated and No Extension of TGETGE period is fixed at 6 days. As per our smart contract setting, unsold tokens will not be generated, and TGE will end when the end date and time is reached. We will not extend our TGE.As per our previous announcement, we already secure enough resources to kick start DML in a lean structure. In fact, as the creator and core believer of DML, we have already started the development. For any more resources we secure, we will stay focus and make good use of it to make our DML protocol even better, as well as engaging the marketing and publicity work of the project.TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus Pool for All TGE ContributorsTo recap, we have already reserved 6% token (of 330,000,000 DML Tokens) for our TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus distribution exclusively for token sale participants. This reserved to be claimed by token sale contributors who download and run our DML App (DML Protocol Gen 1).In addition, any remaining TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus tokens (“TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus Pool”) will be reserved and distributed proportionately (to the base price, 3,780 DML/ETH) to eligible contributors who download and run our DML App. In summary, applicable TGE contributors will be entitled the following:1) TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus for up to 15%2) TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus Plus for up to 5%3) TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus PoolAs the TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus is a fixed reserve pool for all our contributors in advance, it will not be reflected in your own smart contract contribution transaction. Nevertheless, the Team will collect all the contribution transaction data and organize the bonus calculations and distributions.Product Beta Launch On ScheduleOur DML Algo Marketplace beta is expected to be delivered on schedule, upon the completion of TGE.Day 2 of TGE and 333 Quota for TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus PlusThe second stage of TGE is starting at 16:00 UTC+0 on 17-Apr, 2018. The individual cap for Early Whitelist and Main Whitelist participants will be uncapped (with maximum 68 ETH allowed for each transaction; minimum 0.1ETH allowed for each transaction).The TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus will be 15% in Day 2. First 333 participants will entitle to additional 3% TGE-Ecosystem-Bonus plus. Therefore, the maximum applicable bobus will be 18%.The gas price upper limit is 99 Gwei whereas suggested gas is 200,000. As always, there is ONLY ONE smart contract contribution address for our TGE, and we recommend you to cross-check for additional 2–3 sources before actual contribution. Please refer the details below:https://medium.com/decentralized-machine-learning/dml-token-generation-event-tge-smart-contract-address-82f265d3ebcbDML Token DistributionDML token is expected to be available within a few days upon completion of TGE. The Team is also preparing a DML Token Claim Guide, and it is expected to be announced upon the completion of TGE. So please stay tuned with us for the procedure of claiming your DML Tokens.Cheers,DML Team