
Profitable Crypto trading strategies part 6: Good entriesOne of the most unique features in our upcoming app are the trading signals. I have already written five posts about different trading strategies. In this post I’ll discuss and compare some of our existing strategies — more specifically I want to investigate their ROIs how to optimize it.About two weeks ago I’ve plugged-in our trading strategies to our real-time simulation framework. This framework simulates a real trader. The trader is obligated to buy and sell according to the signals generated by each algorithm in our system. This way we compute the ROI in a real-time fashion, which is much more accurate than running an inaccurate back testing simulation.Recall that our algorithms generate signals based on various criteria, one of the important criteria is the interval size of candlesticks.The table below displays the most recent strategies with their corresponding ROI. The ROI, in this specific scenario, is computed using the signals of the past 30 days (= period duration). You’ll see that there are two crypto markets included: Bitcoin (BTC-USDT) and Litecoin (LTC-USDT), but also two distinct interval sizes: 30min and 60min. In the final version we’ll have many more markets such as Ethereum, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash, and more.Crypto trading strategies with their corresponding ROIsIt’s satisfying to see that all of the ROIs are positive, which means that the algos are doing a good job. But there is a pretty large difference between them. Some ROIs are below 10% while others are close to 30%.To understand why this is so, we have to look at the buy and sell decisions of each algorithm individually. But I don’t want to spend countless of hours comparing every single possible combination — so instead I will analyze the algorithm with the highest and lowest ROIs and see what we can learn from it.The lowestIn our case, Voltra 1.0 for BTC-USDT at 30 min intervals, is the algorithm that generates the lowest ROI (of 5.2% to be exact). By click the “show chart” button I make it show all buy and sell decisions it has made:Voltra 1.0 (BTC-USDT) at 30min intervals yields 5.20% ROIThere are two things we learn just by looking at this chart:Not every buy signal is optimal.Not every sell signal is optimal.In reality we can never make “perfect” trades, because we cannot know if some price has reached its ultimate localized peak or valley. Instead of trying to reach perfection, we’ll take a different approach to increase our ROI. If you think deeper about this issue, we can agree that optimizing for better buy decisions is harder than optimizing for better sell decisions.Good buysWith buy decisions you can just buy during a stable period, by taking the calculating risk that the price is going to go up in the near future. Or you can wait for a mini-pump and buy-in as soon as you detect it. Most of our algorithms are pretty good at making decent buy decisions, at least way better than most newbies and even some “experts”.Mediocre sellsBut the algos are not very good at making sell decisions. Sometimes the sell occurs too early — sometimes the human eye can see that the price will keep going up, but the system decides to sell after all. And sometimes it waits too long and the price just keeps crashing. To illustrate this, have a look at the next chart. It’s the same one as above, but this time I’ve marked the sub-optimal “sells”.The highestAt the time of my analysis, Voltra 1.0 at 30 minute intervals for the LTC-USDT market had the highest ROI of over 29%. The chart below shows its buy and sell decisions:Voltra 1.0 (LTC-USDT) at 30 minute intervals yielding 29% ROIEven though the ROI of this algorithm is pretty darn good, it can be optimized quite a lot. Because once again, some of the sells are sub-optimal, as a result, there are many regions where the system sells too early and a few intervals later enters a buy trade. This heuristic of entering a buy shortly after a sell is quite costly due to the 0.1% trading fees, as a result it has quite an impact on the final ROI.On the chart below I’ve indicated some regions where the sell trade occurs too soon. The system should instead have waited a couple of hours before selling, or in one case (the first marked area) it should’ve sold sooner.ConclusionAll of these drawbacks are not a problem at all, because these algorithms aren’t optimized for auto-trading yet — but instead should be used as a tool in manual trading.Most people don’t know when it’s a good time to buy, so they are better off by using the buy signals from our algos. On the other hand, once they’ve bought, it’s a good thing to regularly monitor the price and wait until it has reached a desired ROI (e.g. of 1%). The sell signals should then be used as a notification or reminder that you should either sell immediately or wait a bit longer, if the price is going up that is.Lastly, on the ROI table you may have noticed the “Macd 1.0” and “Macd 2.0” algorithm — this is our latest algo which I’ll discuss in more detail in the next part. So definitely stay tuned for that one! And as always, thanks for reading & have a great day!— Ilya Nevolin