
CUBOMANIA- A BLOCKCHAIN GAME-EDUCATIONAL PLATFORMNo one will dare to deny the fact that childhood is easily the most important period in every person’s life as the experiences people have in childhood shape the brain and their capability to learn, get along with others, and respond to daily stresses and challenges. However, the process of child upbringing and development is not without its challenges for both parents, educators, teachers and any other people working in the field of education. Cubomania is an online platform of early childhood education with the integration into the physical condition . The union of these two intriguing and completely unexplored markets regarding utilizing the blockchain innovation makes an extraordinary open door for the primary financial specialists in this portion .Up until this point, there haven’t been any comparative platforms as the sum total of what consideration has been paid to college education and understudy planning for a superior integration into the working community. Organizations which make innovations and experts who build up the substance utilized as a part of advanced economy ought to think about partaking in our platform development if just to speak to the innovation they make in the course materials accessible for many imminent understudies. Absence of rivalry in this portion holds much guarantee for Cubomania. (Authore Solman: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1903032)A key pattern which has showed up in the robotics business is that modern robotics, which was a traditional market column, has offered approach to non-mechanical sorts of robots, for example, personal robot partners, UAV (quadrotors) and IoT gadgets. Consistently there is an expansion in the quantity of producers of home and toy robotics. New ventures which deliver IoT gadgets and robots open in China consistently.Private interest in the robotic space has kept on astounding with exponential year over-year subsidizing bends and incredible billion dollar acquisitions.Prices for robots, sensors, CPUs and interchanges keep on falling while abilities keep on increasing. Considering every one of these components, it’s anything but difficult to see a one of a kind opportunity.Game CharactersGame characters will enable a child to think about social cooperation in the general public, comprehend human scales. It has got sizes of vitality, satisfaction and life, which educates a child to deal with a character, and subsequently deal with individuals around. In the event that fruitful (for instance, if a child deals with the character so well that a character demonstrates the most abnormal amount of satisfaction), a child gets a reward (Cubo tokens which can be traded for education programs on the platform).The sensors that the 3D shape contains make playing the game energizing and near reality. For instance, when the solid shape is presented to the chilly, sun or water, the character changes its conduct as per the conditions. The character begins shuddering or taking off the garments, takes an umbrella, and so forth. Along these lines a child thinks about the impact of the outside world. Utilizing on-gadget AI makes correspondence extremely energizing as a character will have the capacity to respond to a child’s activities, talk with a child with their parent’s voice, reveal to them stories and so forth. Utilizing supposed conduct codes in the Cubomania blockchain will check another phase of the Blockchain improvement. Envision a game in which a character controls the direct and discoursed relying upon an arrangement of qualities of a human being.social nature, human connection with their general surroundings. The character has a few Educational characters will be a piece of educational experience (a gamified procedure in which a child straightforwardly interfaces with a character) and educational projects (a procedure of getting learning and aptitudes and testing them).One of the pre-introduced characters is called CryptoBuddy.This educational character presents a program which goes for showing children blockchain rationality through the game. Our character will clarify unique ideas of the blockchain innovation and crypto terms to the rising age. We were propelled by CryptoKitties, an online game and the commercial center involving virtual felines, which evoked an unevenly developing enthusiasm to the Blockchain innovation and turned into a beginning stage in globalization and promotion of such a mind-bending concept as Blockchain.As a major aspect of propelling this undertaking we were extremely endeavoring to teach individuals who maybe hadn’t purchased Ethereum previously, individuals who weren’t in the crypto space. said Elsa Wilk, showcasing chief at Axiom Zen, the Canadian tech consultancy that made CryptoKitties. Along these lines, roused by achievement of the principal adaptation of the system for advancing the Blockchain innovation, we settled on a choice to utilize such a straightforward perky frame for making more mind boggling intuitive characters that can be put into a physical body and played with. (Authore Solman: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1903032)The 3D shape incorporates a plausibility to speak with characters from different blocks. On the off chance that several solid shapes get nearer to each other, characters get a probability to visit each other and complete journeys together. Other than that, characters will have the capacity to visit each other if the solid shapes are associated with the Internet. Contingent on modified qualities, characters will be on agreeable terms or squabble with each other, play or battle.Primary standardsGadgets with introduced CuboCore will approach the decentralized store with applications and projects regulated by the Cubomania people group. The fundamental programming cases and greenfield activities of changing multifaceted nature are promptly available constantly to give understudies diverse undertakings: beginning from the primary development calculation and up to complex behavioral examples.Programming advancement pack Along with the essential adaptation of CuboCore, the Cubomania task will get ready SDK which will give instructors, understudies and designers with instant chances to program conduct, sounds, developments and include extra hardware. We expect that CuboCore will be made accessible in research facilities, classrooms, workshops and hackathons where new clients are endeavoring to touch the universe of robotics out of the blue.HOW IT WORKThe item is effectively balanced and associated:A child needs just to examine the QR code on the bundling of the toy to begin investigating the universe of new potential outcomes with only a couple of mouse clicks .A child energetically interface with their favourity:Each child will appreciate a wide choice of characters, their attributes and characteristics . Joined by a most loved character, a child will finish undertakings of any multifaceted nature, play and create .The item completely utilizes capability of present day innovationAn arrangement of sensors, motors, microcontrollers and different components of the toy will enable a child to investigate the outside world, taking in an extensive variety of simple and complex things from learning letters to nuts and bolts of robotics.For more information visit :Website : https://cubomania.io/ Twitter : https://twitter.com/Cubomania_ICOFacebook : https://www.facebook.com/cubomania.io/ Telegram : https://t.me/ICOCubomaniaENAuthore Solman: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1903032