
SHIVOM THE BLOCKCHAIN GENOMICSSHIVOM is called the blockchain genomic, this is because it gives individual the platform and the ability to change the world with their genetic make-up and to know more about their genetics by the use of genomics and blockchain. Thus bringing change into the healthcare system and an improvement in the well-being of individual throughout the whole world, which brings about the treatment of as many as 7,000 rare diseases, alongside cancers, complex and long-term disease such as cardiovascular and neurodegenerative conditions, and infections. Thus transforming both the future of healthcare and the world economy. SHIVOM provide an ecosystem where patient, genomic data donors, pharmaceutical, governments, insurance companies, research organizations, patient-support group, analytical and personalized medicine get to participate in their Web- Market place and by also offering the first ever integrated solution for both donors and genome data donors With SHIVOM individuals stand the chance to enjoy health and it benefit if their genomics is known, thus identifying diseases and providing the best course of treatment for them , creating healthy individual life style , diagnosis of diseases and providing better treatment and producing medicine for targeted diseasesWithout even given out their genomic data, individual who donated their genetic dated to SHIVOM becomes what we billionairesWHY SHIVOM?To create a disruptive genomic ecosystem with the use of blockchain technology SHIVOM platform make a direct –to-consumer business more open.PROJECT OF SHIVOM AND WHY NOWBy integrating genomic, health and blockchain technology, one can say that the project of SHIVOM is a revolutionary project. The intent of this project is by creating a genomic blockchain ecosystem where both the economy and the health system get to be improved by foreseeing the future. Shivom researchers will use data-driven tools and techniques, particularly machine and additionally build a state-of-the art and not-for-profit drug discovery and precision medicine organizationIt is anticipated that by the end of the decade it will be possible to generate a person’s entire genome for less than $100. This show there had been a fall in the price of DNA Sequencing, one can say this will lower the cost and the genomic analysis services leading to individuals having personalized insight individualThe cost of DNA sequencing has fallen significantly. It is anticipated that by the end of the decade it will be possible to generate a person’s entire genome for less than $100. Looking ahead further, we will see dramatically lower costs for genomic analysis services. This will make personalized healthcare insights accessible to almost all individuals around the globe. As recently as January 2017, the worldwide leading sequencing provider Illumina unveiled a new sequencer, the NovaSeq, that the company reports will eventually provide a whole genome for less than $100. This presents a new dawn for access to personalized and precision healthcare on a global scale.We envision a future where genomic data becomes ubiquitous, with its insights for enhancing healthcare securely available and accessible to all. Shivom is pioneering the omics ecosystem to make this vision a reality by offering a first-of-its-kind investment proposition in the rapidly growing market for personalized medicine, powered by state-of-the-art blockchain technology.We will additionally build a state-of-the art and not-for-profit drug discovery and precision medicine organization. Shivom researchers will use data-driven tools and techniques, particularly machine learning methods that underpin artificial intelligence, which will offer promise in improving healthcare systems and services around the globe.Blockchain technology is our tech partner of choice because it is able to address trust issues, including patient consent, data ownership, data integrity, and authentication. Blockchain can also manage complex data rights and allow fine-grained access using smart contracts.PROBLEM AND SOLUTIONFor decades now it has been proven by research and literature that only a few / small number of people are used for clinical trials and since it is hard to know who will respond to certain treatment , it become time wasting and that of resources. This is because there is not enough genomic data available to conduct the necessary research neededBut this is no longer the issue, this is because SHIVOM offers the solution by using the the genetic data available for their clinical trials which help to know the patient who are likely to deviate or become unresponsive to treatment and to develop the best drug and treatment. The reason is because SHIVOM creates a platform where individual data individual genetic analysis are stored in a Data-Hub and secured and this individual and donors get paid for their donation each time their data is been used by the consent of both parties.SECURITY THAT SHIVOM OFFERSWith SHIVOM, you become the become the only one who can see and access your data this is because the user or individual in SHIVOM becomes the number one priority. With this individual can use cryptomatic keys to share their data since all this is based on blockchainTOKEN SALES, DISTRIBUTIONThe OmiX Token:The OmiX token is a key component that enables buying, trading, incentivizing and other services. The token is the fuel of the Shivom ecosystem, as well as part of the governance of the system.THE TEAMDr. Axel SchumacherCo founder and CEOPhD in genetics, over 20 years of R&D leadership experience iun biomarker discovery.Sally EavesCo founder and CMOExperienced Chief Technology OfficerGourish SinglaCInstagram o founder and COOSerial entrepreneur background in investment, banking and wealth management.Akash GauravCo founder & CTOBlockchain expert, started India’s first blockchain company. Aurexis Group(top 100 blockchain companies). Blockchain lab, India and is an advisor to the blockchain starttup CashaaHenry InesChief innovation Officer. Global executive with extensive venture capital, cross border advisory, corporate finance and entrepreneur.For more details,Visit our Website- https://shivom.io/Read more on our Whitepaper-https://shivom.io/files/Shivom-Executive-Summary.pdfFollow us on twitter- https://twitter.com/projectshivomJoin our Telegram Page- https://t.me/projshivomLike us on facebook- https://www.facebook.com/ProjectShivomOur ANN Thread-https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3204563.0Our Bounty Thread- https://bitcointalk.org/indeqx.php?topic=3183600.0AuthorshipBitcointalk username: AbigailAsiProfile link: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1983476