
BITRUST CTO on Blockchain trends to watch for this yearThe BITRUST team is always on the lookout for the latest trends, even if they are not directly linked to our P2P cryptocurrency insurance platform. It keeps us on our toes and gives a broader perspective on the crypto world the BITRUST platform is going to be launched into at the end of this year. So, we asked the company’s CTO Sergey Silin to name a few trends he thinks will be interesting to follow in 2018.The rapid appearance of new services using blockchain technology has prepared a platform for already established enterprises to ask this question — how can blockchain technology be used for the next level up? So, it looks like this year we’re going to see many examples of big companies announcing new projects using blockchain.More blockchain transactions by big playersWhile major US banks including JP Morgan, Citigroup and Bank of America, and UK banks were declaring that they are not going to support the purchase of cryptocurrencies by customers using their credit cards, it looks like the banking industry doesn’t really have a choice. This February we saw two major announcements which make us believe that the banks are finally taking seriously the notion that the financial industry’s rules of the game need to change.International Spanish bank Santander is going to introduce an app that uses Ripple technology. These mobile cross-border payments are claimed to be faster and very secure. The product will not use Ripple cryptocurrency (XRP), but will instead use a solution not based on a public blockchain. But it’s definitely a bold move, taking into account the age of the technology and contrast it with the traditionalist thinking of banks. Another banking giant HSBC has announced that the bank is about to do pilot projects of trade blockchain transactions with its clients. Yes, the technology is still a long way from commercial use, however the bank’s senior innovation manager Joshua Kroeker is confident that “in 2019, or around the same time, the bank should be in a position to have both the network of banks, corporates and others, and (our) app ready to use on a wider scale.”More “convenient” transparencyIt is plausible that some big enterprises will want to build a blockchain which is completely their own. However, due to the redundancy that comes from synchronizing full transaction information across the network it is extremely inconvenient for a market participant to be working with several private blockchains and be connected to each of them. As Paul Brody, a principal innovation leader in blockchain technology at EY, puts it “The long-term future of the blockchain depends on the ability of companies to conduct private business over a public, shared infrastructure.”He suggests that a cryptographic tool, so-called “zero knowledge proof”, would be necessary to allow one party to prove to another that something is true and verified — without that second party needing any additional information. He says: “Zero knowledge proofs are just starting to show working models in 2018.”BITRUST is a P2P cryptocurrency insurance platform currently under development. To finance the development and launch of the BITRUST platform, a limited-supply sale of BITRUST tokens (BTFs) has been created by BTF Project Limited. The sale started on March 5th — read more information about the BITRUST ICO structure, terms and the company itself here.Don’t miss the latest developments: make sure to follow us on YouTube, Facebook and Medium — be the first to find out about BITRUST news and everything else that’s important in the crypto world!