
Advisory Notes 7: John Patrick MullinAmerican crypto & FinTech expert is TV-TWO’s right hand man in China and Hong Kong. But why does he think the blockchain can successfully disrupt the television industry?Greetings :) Can you tell us a little bit about you, your background and expertise?Sure! I’m an American living in Hong Kong, and I’ve spent the last three years living in Asia. I worked at one of the largest Chinese Investment Banks, doing FinTech investment research in Shanghai, and now I’ve moved to Hong Kong, where I’m the head of the trade.io Hong Kong office, and managing director of Research & Business Development. I’ve been in the crypto space for several years, and I advise several blockchain & FinTech businesses around the world.Excellent! So how would you say the cryptocurrency/ICO scene has changed since you first became involved?I have a very simple answer for this one. Regulation. Back when I first entered the space, the regulators were still trying to figure out the difference between a bitcoin and a blockchain. Now they’re coming out with more comprehensive regulations; defining token issuances in different jurisdictions across the world. This isn’t necessarily a bad thing, as in my opinion some oversight is necessary, but I spend a lot of my time working with our ICO consulting clients regarding this.How did you first hear about TV-TWO? What led you to become an advisor?Phillip and I actually attended the same university in Germany — European Business School. We didn’t know each other then, but the EBS alumni network is strong, and we were able to connect after graduating.Philipp reached out to ask me some questions regarding blockchain and my work at trade.io. After speaking with both Phillip & Jan on the phone, I was convinced by their profound knowledge of the television & media space, as well as their sound understanding of blockchain and DLT. I got to see the potential of TV-TWO, and was fortunate enough that Jan and Philipp asked me to be an advisor.As an advisor, I’ve been involved in several ways, both personally, and through my affiliations to different institutions like trade.io and FinTech Connector. In fact, TV-TWO was actually the first ICO company that trade.io partnered with after the completion of our successful ICO. I was able to help TV-TWO with investor relations, a roadshow in Asia, as well as exchange listing upon the trade.io exchange.What impressed you most about TV-TWO?Personally, I just love the use case of using the blockchain to provide alternate ways for content/media consumption for consumers. I also liked the idea of providing content to users in a more personalized and fair way, and I think the blockchain provides the infrastructure to fulfil this.I think that TV-TWO has come up with a revolutionary way to achieve this, and at the same time they have the operational skills and capabilities to implement such an audacious plan.Why do you believe TV-TWO is the Future of Television?I believe that TV-TWO will be the Future of Television, because they’re using blockchain technology to democratize the media distribution process, and putting the control of users’ media consumption in their own hands.In ten years’ time, I can see TV-TWO distributing customized media content to millions of people across the globe, and putting money back in people’s pockets through their TTV token. They will be a global leader in media content distribution.I’m proud to be a part of the advisory team, and looking forward to the start of the public sale! Best of luck guys!— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —The TV-TWO ICO starts on Thursday May 24, 2018, at 1pm GMT. For more info, check out our FAQ section, subscribe to our newsletter, and don’t forget to follow the latest news on Telegram, Twitter (@tvtwocom), Facebook, orMedium. We’re also active on BitcoinTalk and Reddit.Keen to find out more about we’re doing at TV-TWO? Take a look at our whitepaper