
Warren Buffett on buying bitcoin: ‘That is not investing’GiphyWarren Buffet, the world renowned investor known as the “Oracle of Omaha”, and head of Berkshire Hathaway, was again asked his views on Bitcoin recently.CoinTelegraphSpeaking with Yahoo Finance, the 87-year-old American investor has once again scorned investment in cryptocurrencies, going as far to claiming that “buying Bitcoin is not investing,” in an interview with Yahoo Finance in Omaha, Nebraska, on April 28, 2018.When Warren Buffett speaks, investors listen. And Buffett is still not sold on bitcoin.He compared Bitcoin to gambling:“You’re speculating. There’s nothing wrong with it. If you wanna gamble somebody else will come along and pay more money tomorrow, that’s one kind of game. That is not investing.”‘This is Not Investing’Buffett went on to suggest that such investments are merely a speculative “game” and a “gamble” and that “no one knows exactly what it [Bitcoin] is.” He mimicked many financial service workers who believe Bitcoin is simply speculative and not tied to any real or tangible assets.So why does Mr.Buffet’s opinion matter? Berkshire Hathaway has revenues of nearly a quarter of a trillion with influence in popular retail investing. Buffet’s net worth is around $80 billion.He famously does not invest in what he doesn’t understand. While he’s been more muted on crypto and Bitcoin than some others, it would seem that Bitcoin falls into a category even incomprensible to him. He appears to take the tangible assets argument with crypto:Bitcoin is Not tied to Physical Value“If you buy something like a farm, an apartment house, or an interest in a business,” he insisted, “You can do that on a private basis. And it’s a perfectly satisfactory investment. You look at the investment itself to deliver the return to you. Now, if you buy something like bitcoin or some cryptocurrency, you don’t really have anything that has produced anything. You’re just hoping the next guy pays more.”“There’s two kinds of items that people buy and think they’re investing,” he says. “One really is investing and the other isn’t.” Bitcoin, he says, isn’t.Bitcoin is Speculative GamblingWhen you buy cryptocurrency, Buffett continues, “You aren’t investing when you do that. You’re speculating. There’s nothing wrong with it. If you wanna gamble somebody else will come along and pay more money tomorrow, that’s one kind of game. That is not investing.”Back in January, 2018 Buffer agreed with others when they said Bitcoin was near the tipping point of its bubble status. Whereupon Bitcoin lost nearly 60% of its value in a market correction that impacted the sum total of cryptocurrency market cap. As of late April, many altcoins are in the green again, while Bitcoin hovers just below a $10,000 USD price.Buffer back in 2014 dismissed Bitcoin as “a mirage” on CNBC. He had insitunated that crypto in the years that followed would come to a ‘bad ending’. However with dApp platforms one could argue that they are indeed value producing assets, unlike simply blockchain assets such as Bitcoin that are rarely used for transactions and mostly in East Asia.Even as we approach mid 2018, the cryptocurrency market appears tied to the ever fluctuating price of Bitcoin. Though Bitcoin has not been proven to be a bubble, since its value has not reached zero, in fact, lately it’s been making steady gains.Bitcoin News