
Crypto Armageddon or just another FUD?After going through few of the stories from the #Cryptoverse today it feels like I am reliving the 2012 End of the World predictions all over again — well at least as far as the Cryptocurrencies are concerned. Will come back to them in a moment, but take a look at the recent statement from the IMF about Cryptocurrecies.“It is impossible to know the extent to which crypto assets may transform the financial infrastructure and whether most new crypto assets are likely to disappear as in past episodes of technological innovation (as many tech companies did during the boom of the late 1990s, for example). Before they can transform financial activity in a meaningful and lasting manner, crypto assets will first need to earn the confidence and support of consumers and financial authorities.”Pretty evident from it that the biggest monetary institution of the world is skeptical at best about Cryptos but as the same time they are willing to give Cryptos time to prove their utility & gain confidence of the Financial Authorities around the world. So should the following headlines be anything more than continuous onslaught of FUD!Think Tank Director Tells UK Parliament That Blockchain Is ‘Pixie Dust’ and ‘Magic Wands’Renewed Calls for Crypto Regulations from Nasdaq, Bank of America, and the U.S. CongressAs if all of this wasn’t interesting enough that an email landed in my inbox with a link to a video where the guy was claiming that 99.9% of the coins would be banned on July 21, 2018 & people who invested their money in the Cryptocurrencies would lose everything! That date BTW coincides with the next G20 summit taking place in Argentina where recommendations for regulations governing the digital coins is supposed to be brought forward.Apparently, this is the prediction of the currency Guru, Doug Casey, who has an uncanny record of being correct about economic and political trends. It also stated that US has a even more sinister plan of introducing it’s own digital currency called the Fedcoin that would replace all the current Cryptocurrencies in circulation. Half way through the long video I got bored & closed it.I wish I had a crystal ball where I could see what’s going to happen, but I don’t, so I am just going to take care of what’s in my control… technical trading off the charts! I did invest a little bit in Cryptos with strictly HODL perspective. I only risked the money that I can afford to lose… not my life savings & so should you. As far as actively trading any financial instrument goes always follow proper risk management.Wrapping it up here with the though the next G20 summit is not too far off… it will be interesting to see whether something like this happens or this pans out to be another one of those conspiracy theories. Hoping the world doesn’t come to an end.Feel free to comment or post any feedback…