
Juvo’s Win for Lendit’s 2018 Most Innovative Mobile Technology is a Win for the Global UnbankedWe’ve discovered the ability to be financially responsible is entirely independent of income, wealth, geographic location or any demographic characteristic. Our approach is not to hand out loans indiscriminately; rather, it’s about transitioning from financial access to financial inclusion and eventually to financial health — as you can see happening for a Juvo subscriber named Jackie, living in Jamaica.Billions of people worldwide are locked out of access to life-changing financial services as basic as a monthly phone plan, and one of the key reasons is due to lack of financial identity: financial institutions won’t make bets on on people with no credit history. But in a cash economy, how are those financial data points to be collected?Our founder and CEO, Steve Polsky, created Juvo in 2014 with a mission to pierce this veil. Juvo partners with mobile operators to offer previously anonymous prepaid subscribers a financial identity and, in turn, financial opportunity. Last week, Juvo was selected as the Most Innovative Mobile Technology out of hundreds of applicants worldwide and by more than 30 respected fintech industry experts who judged finalists based on innovation, growth, emerging talent, and top performers.Identity is critical in providing digital access to finance, but it doesn’t mean you have to follow traditional credit guidelines. That’s where the mobile component is so powerful. Juvo’s Identity Scoring technology uses data science and machine learning to empower the financially underserved, allowing them access to otherwise unattainable but life-changing mobile financial services. Juvo’s fundamental belief is that the billions who live in cash-based societies without access to lines of credit are creditworthy, but without opportunity to prove it. Through data access, data science and telco distribution, Juvo finds them and provides that opportunity.We’re so proud that Juvo has been named Most Innovative Mobile Technology at the LendIt Fintech awards — the world’s leading event in financial services innovation.Today, Juvo partners with seven of the world’s leading operators and in the four years since its founding has raised over $54M in funding. Juvo’s technology is live in 25 countries, reaching over 500M subscribers with 4M+ active users a day and 10 transactions per second. We plans to continue this growth, with a goal of impacting the lives of one billion people around the world in a meaningful way and becoming a go-to resource for portable credit. To date, Juvo has facilitated $400,000,000 in financial transactions.We’re over the moon with another point of recognition for Juvo, and are incredibly proud to be recognized for innovation amongst industry leaders in fintech. We’re grateful to Steve for his ongoing leadership and example of excellence, to the talented team at Juvo, and of course, to the mobile operators we works with around the world that are helping us reach individuals and walk them up the pathway to financial inclusion.