
A Cryptocurrency Marketplace Driven Through The BlockchainI want to propose a new way to think about the physical possessions we own. Changing how we think about our things is a critical part of thinking forward into the digital future we are heading toward. We are creating a cryptocurrency marketplace in order to help the adoption, and forward progression of blockchain technology and use.Junktion.io is creating a viable eCommerce solution on the blockchain. A marketplace where people can buy and sell their physical goods in exchange for cryptocurrency.I want to change the way you think about your itemsEveryone has an item they have that they no longer use, or use something like once or twice a year.Great, but do you need to own it? What about putting it on the blockchain as a unique piece of property. You can allow other people to buy this piece of property as well, you can contribute, and share in a part of the Junktion ecosystem. Our ecosystem is a circular economy that rewards you for buying and selling items on the blockchain.In this new school of thought, it is very much possible to profit off of buying back your items. Because your items lose value, and most cryptocurrency is designed to inflate in price. There will come a point in most items lifetimes where it would make financial sense to keep things on the blockchain.We are creating a viable, fun and unique shopping experience on the Ethereum blockchain.The Junktion advantage to buying and sellingThe advantage to selling on the Junktion cryptocurrency marketplace is that you receive the cryptocurrency of your choice without any fees associated with it. Traditionally when you sell an item online and wish to obtain a cryptocurrency the money you would get from the sale of the item would exchange hands up to 3 times, all of which will have fees associated with it.If you were to sell on eBay you would have upwards of 14% in fees.Don’t worry there is more.PayPal takes a 3% plus a $.3 fee from the sale price of your eBay item.If you didn’t choose any of the ebay marketing ideas then you are left with a laughable 17% fees. It gets worse.Depending on the cryptocurrency exchange there are both purchasing fees and withdrawal fees associated with buying cryptocurrency.To see more about the fees associated with buying and selling a cryptocurrency click here.An average use case might be the following:Let’s say someone has a ton of old media players, like an old ipod and they are looking for one of two things. They can be looking for a way to obtain cryptocurrency without spending money. Or they can be looking to buy something else. What if this user wants to redo his wood floors as well and is looking to trade his old ipods for items that he needs for his flooring job.This is where the liquidity that Junktions cryptocurrency marketplace provides can help the average person.If a person has a one time use for an item and they do not want the item anymore they can always recycle it back into the Junktion marketplace. Effectively by buying an item and reselling it back into the circular economy. Imagine selling an item you almost never use and buying it back at a profit the next time you want to use it.Items depreciate in price while cryptocurrency appreciates in priceJunktion has a unique value proposition as a cryptocurrency marketplace. We are offering a liquid amount tied to your physical good. So unlocking the value in a collection of something you have can be easily done. Holding the value of the collection in cryptocurrency will allow you to in theory purchase the items back at a profit.Let me explain:Items decline in price. Almost all of them, The moment you drive a car off the lot it is worth less than what you paid for it. Junktion is a way to have our users profit and hopefully be able to buy back the items they put into our cryptocurrency marketplace. Due to the natural fact the items decline in price, while cryptocurrency increases.In this school of thought, there is a way that allows you to transform your physical items into digital assets. A cryptocurrency marketplace that instantly allows users to receive an offer for any physical item you own and converting it into the cryptocurrency of your choice. Junktion takes care of everything. Start to finish.What is JunktionJunktion is a dapp that will have a familiar look and feel that other dapps have but be dedicated to selling physical goods. Junktion serves multiple purposes to contribute to the circular economy and cryptocurrency market place we are creating. As of now Junktion will help with the following:We are buying items and paying out in the choice cryptocurrency our sellers would likeThese items will be placed into our ecosystem and sold for Scraps. You earn scraps by selling to us and having your items contributed to the Junktion ecosystem.Junktion will ship all bought and sold items, this will maintain quality control as well. For both buying and selling.Junktion will dispose of items in a way most meaningful. Junktion will work similar to an auction format that crypto kitties works. However, once the auction dips below a certain increment of Scraps we will dispose of the item, essentially deleting from the earth in the most green and responsible wayJunktion will also mandate the circular economyJunktion allows users to quickly and easily turn items into cryptocurrency. The Junktion ecosystem rewards users for buying and selling and pays in scraps every time a user contributes toward the circular economy.Why I came up with JunktionI summed it up pretty well in this reddit post.To sum up a long story, I began reselling items online many years ago. I was a prolific eBay and Amazon seller. I always thought there had to be a better way. When I stumbled across dApps I instantly knew that I could create that better, more fair and eco friendly solution on the blockchain.I realized that all I wanted to do was turn my stuff into cryptocurrency. So I began creating that service myself. Currently, we will buy anything you own for cryptocurrency ourselves if you fill out this form. Sell to usI want to create alternative methods for people to earn, and adopt cryptocurrency and I think that boils down to showing people new and exciting.Junktion will bridge the gap between physical goods and digital assets.But, we need your help!Junktion gives people liquidity to their items, and once we purchase the item from you it will be put for sale on our website and sold for scraps. (To learn more about our erc20 token you can see this article)If you are interested in contributing to Junktion in any way please email us: info@junktion.ioI would love to collaborate with anyone with a passion in the space.How we plan on incorporating the blockchain to our business:We plan to create the new standard of selling physical items through the blockchain, both circular economy and cryptocurrency marketplace. A place where people can buy and sell items for cryptocurrency.We are creating the best eCommerce experience in the blockchain industry on the Ethereum Network.We want to create a seamless, one-click instant transaction that the ETH network provides and create a seamless e-commerce solution using the Ethereum network on our cryptocurrency marketplace.We are looking for developers, marketers, and people who want to be a part of this incredible new process of buying and selling in the digital age. If you are at all interested in contributing your items or time to Junktion.io please email info@junktion.io