
Problems of the banking systemBanks were created to act as intermediaries, providing a link between investors and borrowers. In a way, the so-called mutual benefit funds that existed in the Soviet Union were like banks in miniature, performing the same functions. Since the time when the banking system was initially founded, people have developed a negative opinion about both the system and the people who run it. We have been trying to understand why this is the case.✖️ Banks are dominantThe one thing you need to know if you decide to place a bet at a casino or play the slots is that the house always wins. It’s the same with the banking system: regardless of the success of any transaction, who’s party to it or how much the overall profit is, the bank will come out on top in any scenario. Its interests are most important — more important than the interests of investors and certainly more important than the needs of borrowers. It goes without saying that sort of approach is not going to win over ordinary people.✖️ Banks dictate the termsBig money always means politics or, in other words, pursuing one’s interests in other spheres (besides finance). Banks have always been involved in politics, lobbied for their interests and imposed their opinions on entire countries. Their ubiquity and constant desire to be present in all areas of a client’s life are annoying and give rise to animosity.✖️ Banks are unfairThe drive to make profit and the principle of “working for business” puts people at the end of a long list of banking interests. The image of a person tearfully pleading with the bank to change its decision is firmly embedded in our culture, but it’s of no use. Banks’ focus on large business and risk aversion mean that it’s much more profitable and safer for banks to work with large companies, agreement-based transactions and state contracts than to think about individual clients.✖️ Banks are takersOne of a bank’s minor activities is debt collection. Over the years, banks have used a variety of methods to get their money back, and these haven’t always been the proper methods in ethical (or even legal) terms, while softer approaches to resolving problems related to a borrower’s solvency have hardly ever been used. As a result, banks are now spending millions to create a positive image in the minds of people, but it’s not so easy to repair their reputation.✅ What is p2p?In contrast to b2b (“business to business”), p2p, or “peer to peer”, means “equal to equal”. From the very beginning, this suggests the equality of all participants, decentralisation and the absence of a “boss at the top”. In fact, this is a system created for interaction among similar users without intermediaries or third-party systems.In the next article you are going to learn more about p2p ?