
Here’s everything you need to know about ICO regulationsCryptocurrencies are the latest new craze in investing, as cryptocurrencies are starting to be considered a new asset class to invest in similar to stocks and bonds.An Initial Coin Offering (ICO) is a way for cryptocurrency organizations (typically startups) to raise funds to develop a cryptocurrency. ICOs are useful because it allows startups and organizations to bypass traditional money raising avenues such as going to venture capitalists or banks as a source of funds. A portion of the team’s cryptocurrency is sold to people who participate in the ICO.Because ICOs are still an incredibly new field, regulations surrounding ICOs and cryptocurrencies are still unclear in many parts of the world. In this article, I’d like to cover what you need to know about ICO regulations if you’re thinking about participating in or creating an ICO.How do countries view ICOs currently from a regulatory standpoint?According to Forbes, countries are taking three varying approaches to ICOs:Openly hostile. Strictly regulatedWary but still open. Possible regulationOpen and friendly. Minimal regulation, if anyChinaChina is in the openly hostile category towards ICOs, and considers all ICOs as “illegal public financing”. The ruling came from China’s central bank, which issued a statement claiming that ICOs disrupted the country’s financial order that “raises suspicions” of fraud and criminal activity. Chinese regulators have claimed that the move was due to the fact that they wanted to make “financial security” a top priority.For startups considering an ICO, China is the last place that you’ll want to look at in terms of holding the ICO or moving a cryptocurrency startup there due to harsh regulation.United States/European UnionThe U.S. and European Union (EU) have a more open approach to ICOs than China. The U.S. and EU have adopted similar guidance regarding ICO regulations and token classification. In general, tokens from ICOs can be broken down into two separate categories: Security Tokens and Utility Tokens. What are those, anyway?Security TokenA security token is a token that is directly related to the growth of the company. In general, they represent ownership of an asset (such as equity within a company). Typically, startups view security tokens as under the same regulations of securities regulations within the U.S. and EU.Let’s say XYZ startup wanted to create a security token. An example of a security token would be a token that represents equity within XYZ startup.Utility TokenA utility token, meanwhile, is a token that provides users with future access to a product or service. This can be a preorder, a discount, a membership, etc.An example of a utility token is the Basic Attention Token (BAT). Advertisers can purchase ads using BAT tokens, which are distributed among publishers and browser users as compensation for hosting the ads and viewing them.The key difference between utility tokens and equity tokens is that equity tokens entitle the holder to ownership rights, while utility tokens do not provide ownership stake within a company.How to determine whether an ICO is a utility token or a security tokenThe main test to use when determining if a token is a utility token or security token is through what’s called the Howey test.The Howey test is based off of a U.S. supreme court case in which the court was attempting to determine what constitutes a security, so that it could decide whether or not the company should register with the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission (SEC).The Howey test stipulates that in order for a token to qualify as a security it must:Be an investment of moneyHave an expectation of profit from the investmentHave the investment of money be in a common enterpriseHave any profit come from the efforts of a promoter or third partyAccording to Jonathan Chester from Forbes, if a token does not pass the Howey test (i.e. it is considered a utility token) then money taken in from the token may be viewed as revenue rather than an investment. This means that security tokens and utility tokens potentially have different tax implications.Juan Llanos, who has more than a decade of experience as a compliance offer for financial institutions in New York, stated the following about token regulations:The default position of securities regulators seems to be to consider them securities or investment contracts when they fit the conditions of the Howey test… they’re looking at the promises and representations being made to consumers and investors, and are trying to weed out the obvious scams and exaggerated claims…There is today a global legal vacuum with respect to certain tokens that have a strong utility and consumptive value because they don’t fully fit the definition of ‘investment contract’ under Howey or its international equivalents.SwitzerlandAccording to ICO Watchlist, Switzerland ranks fourth in highest number of ICOs per country, just behind the U.S., United Kingdom, and Russia. Switzerland is ahead of countries typically viewed as ICO friendly such as Singapore and Estonia.So what are the advantages that Switzerland has for hosting an ICO as opposed to other countries? According to Thomas Linder of Swiss law firm MME, there are three main advantages:A liberal approach to regulationDirect access to authoritiesA federal system focused on decentralized idealsLiberal approach to regulationSwitzerland tries to define regulations for ICOs in such a way that it’s applicable to very specific use-cases, unlike in the United States where every single regulatory body tries to be involved in as many different fields as possible.The goal of ICO regulation in Switzerland is to focus on specific problems, not to create unnecessary regulations to address problems that may or may not arise in the future.Direct access to authoritiesIt is possible to present a token offering on paper and get the opinion from the authorities about it. Through this method, you don’t have to worry about later investigation.Authorities from Zug, Switzerland don’t assume you did something wrong, but instead look for ways to find efficient solutions for everyone.Federal system focused on decentralized idealsMost of the power is held at the smallest entities in Switzerland. Local infrastructure is run at the local levels of government.People in Switzerland can propose a change in the constitution and laws and with enough signatures on an initiative, it comes to a countrywide vote.Switzerland’s regulatory guidanceSwitzerland has released regulatory guidance on ICOs, classifying tokens into three separate categories:Payment tokensUtility tokensAsset tokensPayment tokens are subject to Anti-Money Laundering (AML) regulations, while utility tokens have no regulations and security tokens have security specific regulations.Know Your Customer / Anti-Money LaunderingFinally let’s go over two terms that you may have heard of before if you’ve participated in an ICO: Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML).KYC/AML is a process in which a company can verify the identity of its customers. This is done to ensure that money received from customers is legitimate and that the customer is not part of a sanctioned list, a criminal, terrorist, etc.ICOs often use KYC/AML practices in order to avoid the ire of regulatory bodies. KYC/AML provides legitimacy to a startup and, in many cases, exchanges will not list a token unless it has gone through some form of a KYC/AML process.