
Bitxoxo: Fastest Growing Bitcoin ExchangeBITXOXO is a business conscious Bitcoin company that specializes its strength on digital currency, created and held electronically. BITXOXO is a multinational company that focuses on selling, buying, gifting and exchanging Bitcoins with a focus on trust, security, and reliability, our goal has always been to create a safe and accessible place to trade bitcoins.BITXOXO is a secure platform. As soon as user’s account is verified and payment is confirmed, orders are processed immediately. This technique allows us to provide our customers the best and fastest service in the business. In a bid to achieve long lasting business success and improve the company’s customer base in the financial industry, BITXOXO shall invest in marketing activities that reveal the business objectives to targets in the Bitcoin market. The company shall invest in SEO optimization and marketing campaigns with the capacity to equip BITXOXO’s trading platform for acceptance and improved patronages.COMPANY OVERVIEWBITXOXO’s core values are driven by the desire to set a standard of professionalism in the cryptocurrency industry and operate ethically through collaborations and business relationship with core players in the industry. BITXOXO is owned and operated by experienced personnel in the industry. The company specializes in services aligned to cryptocurrency trading as it provides a platform that enables users to trade with a secure confidence. We are building this solution with the customer focus. We believe by thinking about the customer at every step of the way we will be successful. The company plans to deliver exceptional customer service that retains and maintains a growing customer base in the bitcoin industry.BITXOXO VISIONBitxoxo are envisioning to be the best Bitcoin trading platform in India and even worldwide.BITXOXO MISSIONBitxoxo are on a mission to make Bitcoin accessible to everyone and introduce them to a secure, fast, and real trading platform.Risk Management in BITXOXOThe management of BITXOXO understands the challenges relating to the collections of risks connected to doing business in the cryptocurrency trading industry. It is evidenced that the activities and processes associated with this kind of business have a clear intention of applying systematic risk management techniques.It is believed that this is a crucial reason for BITXOXO to continually improve the quality of services for financial transactions so that the company could be equipped for recognition even as competition increases within the niche. To provide a starting point for the development of BITXOXO’s risk assessment methodology; the following preliminary risk matrix outlines typical risks associated with doing business in the trading industryRisk #1 — Distinguishing BITXOXO’s brand in the Bitcoin marketRisk #2 — Developing and Retaining a Loyal Customer BaseRetention of existing customers is always easier than finding new onesRisk #3 — Low Barriers to EntryCompetitors could enter the marketMARKETING STRATEGY IN BITXOXOBITXOXO has gathered as much market intelligence as possible about the potential market segment for cryptocurrencies. Comparative market research in developing countries introduces several important complexities, including language, culture, currency, and customs. These factors are particularly relevant for diverse countries such as India.Market research is thus a crucial focus point for the Company. The primary objectives of BITXOXO’s research efforts will be to ascertain how our products will fit into the market, what their sales potential is, and what it will cost to achieve this potential.BITXOXO plans to mitigate the risk of entering into new markets by acquiring as much information about those markets as possible. In this way, risk will not be avoided, but it will become more manageable.BITXOXO intends to build a strong, sustainable business model through consistent growth and expansion by acquiring niche businesses in India and other parts of the world.KEYS TO SUCCESS OF BITXOXOBITXOXO recognizes that success in business is based on unconditional commitment and focus on transforming business goals into success. Being a company with the commitment to serve people who are new and experienced to the cryptocurrency trading business; it is believed that the most important factor that defines success is value. Keys to success include;· Aggressive marketing through SEO, social marketing, and targeted advertising.· Recruitment of experienced and committed workforce.· Lowering overall costs.· To become an active and ethical member of the cryptocurrency community.· To build and maintain a high reputation for excellence in the industry.· Availability of trained, enthusiastic, passionate and knowledgeable personnel with answers to financial trading needs.· BITXOXO to increase success rate through adherence to strategic plans, effective communication, customer satisfaction and management of financial plans in accordance with its corporate goals.SWOT ANALYSIS BY BITXOXOBITXOXO forecast its strength as the ability to respond quickly and positively to market demands.The table summarizes the company’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats (SWOT). As noted in the table, BITXOXO is fortunate to have formidable strengths and glowing opportunities.BITXOXO PLATFORMAt Bitxoxo exchange, we offer the widest spectrum of services for the people in India. You can easily buy or sell and even gift Bitcoins to your friends and family within minutes. Bitxoxo is the World’s first company to launch Bitcoin Physical Gift Card. Also, we will be incorporating more services on Bitxoxo; like PoS System for Merchants, Bitcoin Payment Gateway for e-commerce websites, travel portals, recharges, and shopping, etc. Very soon our users will be able to spend their bitcoins as well on bitxoxo.com.BITXOXO GIFT CARDBitxoxo is the first bitcoin exchange in the world to launch Crypto pre-paid gift card for its users. It is a physical gift card similar to the cards available with E-commerce website for shopping. Any bitcoin users can buy a gift card for self, friends and family from Bitxoxo website.BITXOXO APPRecently, Bitxoxo launched its trading app. The app available for free for both the Android and iOS users. The app has been tried and tested through an expert team of company’s developers and has a very easy interface which will make users trading experience hassle-free from several steps and will be updated with cryptocurrency price every time for buying and selling.ICO LAUNCHPAPBitxoxo launched country’s first ICO Launchpad service for it users and ICO/PreICO blockchain projects. Through Bitxoxo’s ICO Launchpad, our users can invest into ICO’s listed on our ICO Launchpad. These ICO are selected and shortlisted by our team of Blockchain and cryptocurrency experts.BITXOXO INCUBATORBitxoxo vision is to help new blockchain startups by incubate them with our advice and funding. We know the complexities and challenges which every startup has to go through in the initial phase of setting up a business. We had also gone through those phases.The main objective of our incubator is to provide seed investment to blockchain startup around the globe which has an ecient team and very high future potential. Bitxoxo will also provide all relevant assistance to these startups so that we can help in making our world a better place. Bitxoxo Incubator will be directly managed and monitored by our company’s board of members, so that none of the project gets neglected.BITXOXO DEBIT CARDAs a value added service for our PoS merchants, we will issue an International Debit card through which they can directly withdraw their payments received through sales, from any ATM in the world. Also they can use this Debit card for shopping.WHY INVEST IN BITXOXO TOKENS(XOXO)?XOXO token holders will benefit from continuous demand for XOXO token. Bitxoxo business model will ensure that there is always a requirement for XOXO token on our platform. As explain in the below figure, whenever there is a pair matched between buyer and seller. Bitxoxo collects 0.1% fees from both buyer and seller. Bitxoxo then buy the XOXO token from market at its current exchange rate worth 25% of the Buyer and Seller fees and refund them to the buyer and seller, hence creating a constant demand for XOXO tokens.TEAM OF BITXOXOThe management teams headed by the Founder & CEO of BITXOXO Hesham Rehman are fantastic individuals with exceptional talents in their respective areas.ConclusionTo know details about BITXOXO and all their operations, it is important to check their various links and channels written below:Website: https://www.bitxoxo.exchangeWhitepaper: https://www.bitxoxo.exchange/Bitxoxo_Whitepaper.pdfFollow on Reddit: https://www.reddit.com/r/BitxoxoFollow on Github: https://www.github.com/BitxoxoFollow on Twitter: https://twitter.com/bitxoxoindia?lang=enFollow on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/bitxoxo/Follow on Medium: https://medium.com/@bitxoxobitcoinFollow on Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCTtn71nht1UjkI3HKdC1Mtg/Follow on Linkedin: https://in.linkedin.com/company/bitxoxoNB: Most of the picture diagrams and table displayed in this write up are obtained from official site of Retail.global and their whitepaper.Bountyhive Link:  bountyhive.io/r/Akinseye