
Work(ing) at Wealthfront: Jeff HoltJeff Holt is a Director of Backend Engineering at Wealthfront. He is a Bay Area native who grew up in San Jose and attended Cal Poly, SLO and Stanford. Jeff lives in Redwood City with his wife and two kids, a skateboard ride away from the Wealthfront office. He enjoys spending time working on and around their 99-year-old house and coaching his son’s little league team.How did you first hear about Wealthfront and what attracted you to working here?I was looking around for new opportunities when a friend connected me with his former colleague who had recently left LinkedIn for Wealthfront. At the time, I had spent much of my career in startups in the 3 to 30 employee growth phase, but never the next phase. I was looking for that experience. Wealthfront had about 20 employees when I joined in 2013 and it had impressive growth metrics. It seemed likely to me that 30 to 300 (and beyond) was coming. So, the first box it checked for me was company stage.The next box Wealthfront checked for me was the product box. When I learned about Wealthfront’s product, I realized I really believed in it. It was something I wanted to use personally and help build, which is still super motivating to me.The final box was that I wanted to work with Wealthfront’s team. Wealthfront’s systems were more technically mature than I was used to. For example, fully automated continuous deployments were something that my previous teams had aspired to, but not something that we had been able to invest in building out. Wealthfront had already invested in this very early on, and that impressed me. I could tell that I could both learn from and contribute to Wealthfront’s engineering team.What makes being an engineering manager at Wealthfront unique?To be honest, it’s hard to put into words what makes it unique, but it is very different from my previous experiences. Prior to Wealthfront, I had been the only engineering manager at early stage companies. I really value being one of nine engineering managers now at Wealthfront. We collaborate with one another a lot, forming a team to tackle various projects together such as revamping our engineer level descriptions. We’re also able to ask each other for opinions on how to handle various situations as they arise. Our different perspectives are really helpful to our collective success.You‘ve been at Wealthfront for almost five years, how have you seen the company evolve?Wealthfront has grown up a lot in five years. Along the way, we have become a lot more intentional about ensuring that it stays this way for everyone and that it improves over time. For example, we have standardized processes that we did not have when I joined, including comprehensive onboarding for new employees, company-wide performance reviews every 6 months, and daily lunch catering.Wealthfront’s product vision has also expanded a lot in five years. While the broader vision existed all along, we were primarily focused on building out our automated investment service during my first few years at Wealthfront. While this is still a focus and always will be, we have now grown big enough to also expand into other financial services, such as financial planning with Path, and we have a lot more to come.With all of the growth, I am also impressed by how much we’ve been able to keep the course. For example, within engineering our focus on automated testing and our continuous development process have scaled very well. While their implementations are more mature now, their utility and our development methodology have remained essentially unchanged. Also, as a company, many of our early key principles remain fundamental, such as making sure we always do what is best for our clients.What has been the most memorable experience you’ve had at Wealthfront?The engineering team grew pretty fast, and as we did we quickly outgrew the org structure of all reporting directly to the VP of Engineering. I became our first (non-VP) engineering manager. Many management processes were not in place yet, and I enjoyed helping establish them. Eventually, I also helped integrate additional engineering managers into the team. In retrospect, I can see that these experiences were quintessential 30 to 300 growth phase experiences.What do you want the world to know about you?I have lived my whole life in California, except for the year I spent in college windsurfing and waiting tables in Maui. Man that was a good idea.Interested in working with Jeff? Check out our open roles here!— — —Path is a sophisticated personal finance model offered by Wealthfront that allows Clients to plan for the future and explore projections of various possible financial outcomes. The projections in Path are estimates based on Clients’ latest data from linked financial accounts, tolerance for risk, and current investments, as well as assumptions compiled by Wealthfront’s Research team.Wealthfront prepared this article for informational purposes and not as an offer, recommendation, or solicitation to buy or sell any security. Wealthfront and its affiliates may rely on information from various sources we believe to be reliable (including clients and other third parties), but cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. See our Full Disclosure for more important information.Wealthfront and its affiliates do not provide tax advice and investors are encouraged to consult with their personal tax advisor. Financial advisory and planning services are only provided to investors who become clients by way of a written agreement. All investing involves risk, including the possible loss of money you invest. Past performance does not guarantee future performance.