
What you need to know about Safe Haven, transparency is key!At Safe Haven we think that transparency to our community is one of the most important things. That is why we listed some crucial questions and provided them with an answer.Where is your company registered? Could i have a copy of certificate of incorporation, list of directors and details of registered office address?The Safe Haven Tech PTE LTD company is a private share company registered in Singapore, 167 Jalan Bukit Merah #0512,ConnectionOne SINGAPORE.The directors from Safe Haven Tech PTE LTD are:Dujardin Logino with 33,33 sharesAndy Demeulemeester with 33,33 sharesJurgen Schouppe with 33,33 sharesThe ACRA of incorporation can be asked on request to info@safehaven.io2. Can i have details of any intellectual property which the company has created, registered or applied to register?The Safe Haven platform and inheritance on the blockchain is protected at https://www.boip.int/nl, the number is 108454, registered by Jurgen Schouppe.3. Can you share your Cap Table?Ticker: SHATotal supply: 85,000,000Ethereum Based Tokens (ERC20)ICO Start Date: 06/30/2018Exchange rate Private Investors: 2500 SHA = 1ETH Exchange rate presale: 2000 SHA = 1 ETH Exchange rate ICO: 1500 SHA= 1 ETHMinimum Cap: 3000 ETH (REACHED ALREADY IN PRIVATE SALE)Maximum Cap: 25.000.000 $4. Has there been any change in the shareholders in the past 12 months? If so what and why?No, nothing has changed.5. Has there been any change in the board of the company in the past 12 months? If so who and why?No, nothing has changed.6. Who are the founding team members? What is the citizenship of the founding team? Has the founding team changed in anyway in the past 12 months? If so who and why?The founding team members are:Logino Dujardin, born and still living in Belgium.Jurgen Schouppe, born and still living in Belgium.Andy Demeulemeester, born and still living in Belgium.7. In your team who is a part time employee?In the Safe Haven team the only parttime people are the advisors. Our core teammembers are fulltime on Safe Haven.8. Does any of the founding team members have any involvement in helping raise capital for other token projects? Is the person in question regulated to do so?No, no one from the founding teammembers is raising capital for other projects besides Safe Haven.9. How much money has the company raised (equity/token) and over what period?Safe Haven raised about 5,000,000 USD so far in private sale. The private sale started at december 10 and will end before the ICO.10. What is your company’s cash burn rate?Most of the funds will be used in marketing for our Trust Alliance Network expansion and the development of our open source hardware ledger. Our cash burn rate and overhead costs are very low. The core members received and will receive SHA tokens in the future. We locked away 10,000,000 SHA tokens four household in the future. That means that the ETH we raise can be used for expansion, visibility and marketing worldwide.11. Is your company GDPR compliant?Yes Safe Haven is GDPR compliant, we have a GDPR specialist on our team named Alain Degreffe. Since our founder Jurgen Schouppe worked for the European Parliament for 12 years, we make this our priority to be compliant.12. What is the vesting schedule for Team and Advisors token?Company tokens are locked for a period of 12 months. Founder tokens are locked for a period of 12 months. Majority of the advisor and team tokens are locked for 6 months. We let them decide and 90% made the choice to lock their tokens.13. Is vesting for Team and Advisors coded in the smart contract?Yes, the vesting code is in the smart contract.14. Is your smart contract deployed for the ICO?The smart/token contract will be deployed before the ICO, we will publish it after the ICO and before token distribution. In that way we can avoid decentralized exchanges start trading Safe Haven without our approval during the ICO.15. Was your smart contract audited by an independent cybersecurity company? If yes by whom?Yes, our smart contract is under review by Hosho.16. Could i have a link to your github repo?https://github.com/Safehaven-io17. Do you have a working product on a testnet? Will mainnet be launched before the crowdsale?Yes, our MVP will be released before the public ICO.18. Has the code for your product been published, and has is it been audited by an independent cybersecurity company? If yes by whom?We decided to keep our code private till we launch the ICO, we noticed that competitors changed their whitepaper based on ours and we want to avoid our code being copied since we created a unique protocol.19. Are you using a reputable 3rd party for KYC verification? How safe is it to upload my Identity Document on your site?Our KYC platform is custom made by our developers and perfectly safe. We partnered with KYC company VeriMe and we will integrate their solution in our platform.20. Can us investors participate in the sale? If yes did you secure Reg-D?Yes, we hired a US Securities Counsel in our team to make sure we are compliant with SEC and Reg-D. US investors are allowed in our sale.Join our Official Telegram Channel: https://t.me/safehavenioFollow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/safeHavenioFollow us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/SafeHaven.io