
How to participate in Union Token Sale? Step-by-Step TutorialFollow this simple step-by-step guide to participate in the Union Token Salethat opens May 1st, 2018 and ends July 31st, 2018. Please make sure to visit our website to understand the full offer and Token Sale terms.Below are some general, frequently asked questions to resolve your basic doubts.Who can participate in this Token Sale?Anyone with an internet connection and the required funds will be able to participate in our Token Sale. Citizens from the Pakistan, Canada, China, Singapore, South Korea, and United States of America are not allowed to participate in our Token Sale.Which cryptocurrencies do I need to participate?Ether/Bitcoin/LiteCoin, (ETH/BTC/LTC) are the only cryptocurrencies that will be accepted during Token Sale. You may send these coins as many times as you want during the Token Sale duration — from May 1st, 2018 to July 31st, 2018.Can I participate with cash or credit card (Fiat Currencies)?We will only accept contributions in ETH/BTC/LTC. This means you won’t be able to invest using cash, a credit card or bank transfer. However, you can purchase ETH/BTC/LTC on any exchange platform that accepts one of these payment methods, such as, zebpay, binance, etc. and then use the ETH/BTC/LTC coins to participate in our Token Sale.What is an ETH wallet and why do I need one?UNI smart tokens are ERC20 token built on the public Ethereum blockchain. You need ETH wallet to store UNI Tokens. When you participate with ETH/BTC/LTC, the crowdsale contract will automatically send UNI tokens to the ETH wallet address that you provided during registration.What is the minimum I can invest?0.1 ETH /0.007 BTC/ 0.45 LTCHow many UNI Tokens will I get?We have locked in below exchange rates:1 ETH = $800 = 25,000 UNI Token | 1 LTC = $ 178 = 6000 UNI Token | 1 BTC = $10,960 = 350,800 UNI TokenStep-by-step tutorialStep 1: Set up your digital walletUNI Token is Ethereum based smart tokens. In order to participate in our token sale, you will first need to set up your Ethereum wallet, where you will receive your UNI Tokens. While there are several options available, you need a digital wallet that supports ERC20 tokens. We recommend the following Ethereum wallets:MyEtherWallet (no download needed)MetaMask (Firefox and Chrome browser add-on)imToken (iPhone App)imToken (Android App)Please make sure you follow all the instructions to set-up your wallet. Always remember, the personal keys that are generated for your wallet cannot be recovered! Do not share your personal key with anyone, make a back-up and don’t lose it!Step 2: Register with a cryptocurrency exchange and purchase your ETH/BTC/LTCTo participate in our Token Sale you need ETH/BTC/LTC (no FIAT Currencies). So the next step is to buy ETH/BTC/LTC (unless you already have some, in which case, you can skip this step). To purchase ETH/BTC/LTC, register with a reputable cryptocurrency exchange — there are several of them: Zebpay, Binance, Bitfinex, Bittrex, and many more. Note that different exchanges caters to specific citizens, pick one which is relevant to your country of residence.Once you select the online exchange, add your bank account/credit card, make a transfer to the account you’ve created on the exchange platform, and follow the instruction in the exchange to purchase ETH/BTC/LTC .Step 3: Transfer your ether to the digital walletEther Contribution:After you purchase ether (ETH), you need to send that to your digital wallet (created in Step 1) from exchange wallet. It’s a crucial step in preparation to participate in any Token Sale. If you send crypto coins to CrowdSale Contract address from an exchange wallet, sometimes the tokens that are not sent back or they’ll be the property of the exchange platform. And that’s basically the equal to losing your contribution.Ensure you send the ether coins from your exchange wallet to your Ethereum wallet (created in Step 1) before participating in our Token Sale.Bitcoin/Litecoin Contribution: If you happen to purchase BTC/LTCStep 4: Registration for Union Token SaleIt’s showtime! Head to our registration page for Sign-UpStep 4.1 — Signing Up on the Website: open website Click here and enter all data required for signing up. You need to input your Name, e-mail, password and referral code(if any), confirm that you’ve read and agreed to our Terms and Conditions, pass the anti-spam protection and follow the link from the account activation email.If you haven’t received this email within 10 minutes then go to our Sign-in Page. Enter your email and password. Pass anti-spam protection and press sign in button. You will get an option to resend verification link.Step 4.2 — Activating Your Account: For activating your account, follow the link in your email to open the website.Step 4.3 — Filling of KYC formOnce you reach website, you will be presented with KYC form. You can carry-out purchase even without KYC but you will receive token only after completion of KYC.Fill all the details. While uploading image under “Selfie with utility bill” ensure that you take selfie with your utility bill otherwise it will be rejected. After filling all details press Submit button.Notice that your referral code is still not generated. It says, “Pending Approval”. Once your form is verified and approved, you will be able to see your referral code hereStep 4.4 — Enter your digital Ether wallet address (generated in Step 2) for receiving EtherFinally you must enter your Ether wallet address in which you would like to receive UNI Tokens.Step 5: Send Ether from your digital wallet to CowrdSale contract addressLogin to your Union Dashboard, and go to purchase tab, from the drop-down you can choose ETH/BTC/LTC to buy the UNI Token. Depending upon chosen crypto currency, address will appear in the highlighted section to send the respective crypto currency to. In case of Ether, our contract address starts with “0xd7cd24” and ends in “141”. Exact address you can find when you log-in to your dashboard.Paste the respective Crowdsale target address into “The Address/Recipient Address” field, type in the amount of ETH/BTC/LTC you want to contribute, click “Generate transaction” and then “Send transaction”! You have just officially contributed to the Union Token Sale!Step 6: Secure Your TokensOnce you send your ether, the smart contract will immediately send you the UNI tokens. It’s important to transfer the UNI tokens to a more secure wallet to protect yourself from hackers.Note: Union team is dedicated to make this process as smooth as possible, in case of any queries. Please send us an email @info@getunion.io or chat us on Telegram , or directly reach to our admin on Telegram: @amitesh.sahu