
Merculet ICO HOT(MVP Token)Hi guys , welcome back to my ICO review channel! Today , i want to introduce you another ico , that have just published a week ago , this is still very early for you to dig deep research on this project because it is super potential and promissing .It is project Merculet.Merculet ICO — Amazing project to invest 2018About The Merculet ProjectThe blockchain enables users to collaborate without the need for intermediaries. This is potentially going to change the world of finance forever. Today, we live in a world of information overload. This excessive data can become a bottleneck for corporate growth. The Merculet project wants to transform the internet from information based to an Internet of Value.The Merculet project will utilize the blockchain to transform how investors, producers, and consumers relate. In essence, the project wants to monetize the attention of people on the internet. At the same time, it will help businesses grow by creating a new ecosystem that allows for the redistribution of the trillion dollars value-driven economy.To achieve its goal, The Merculet Project has created an Attention Value Network powered by the MVP token. The token connects both the demand and supply side of attention on an open protocol. This will ensure that there is virtuous circulation of the internet of value.The Main Components Of MerculetUser Attention EvaluationThe first component of this project is the User Attention Evaluation. This will be used to measure the value of the attention a user provides. This evaluation will go hand in hand with a reward point system.User Attention TokensThe other component is the User Attention Tokens. These are the tokens designated for every entrepreneur. The UAT will be used to anchor the basic MVP, which will enable the value exchange and synergy between entrepreneurs.Open Content PlatformThe third component is the Open Content Platform, which is based on a consensus mechanism. It is powered by tokens and will also be the source of user attention. This encourages all users in the platform to promote the virtuous cycle.Merculet has already defined partnerships with some partners for business practice such as Solo Ads, which is a company with years of overseas traffic operation experience and the commercialization of ads. The company already has a working product matrix, MagicWindow. They have many years of experience offering smart content distribution services to business people. Merculet has also partnered with Elex, which had years of experience in the overseas game distribution market.Issues That Merculet SolvesRight now, if you want to acquire new users, it can be quite difficult and costly for both startups and mature businesses. The worst thing about the current situation is that it can be hard for a platform to acquire new users and retain the old ones. This undoubtedly creates huge challenges to the healthy and sustainable development of a business.Today, only information can be directly sent and received. However, trying to send value or money directly over the internet is not possible. This makes it hard to measure user value. A business with a large user based is the reason why its value is set at billions of dollars.However, users themselves are not valued as they deserve. Despite that, the data, time, and money that users generate, are used to help a company grow. The value of users today is underestimated. Because of this, it leads to a vicious cycle of businesses losing potential avenues for making money.Merculet Token SaleVolume: 10,000,000,000 MVP (Finite supply. All MVP tokens pre-minted.) Softcap: 10,000 ETH Hardcap: 37,000 ETHPrivate Sale: 21,000 ETH KYC/AML Required 1 ETH= 87,500 MVP Min Contributions: 150 ETH Max Contributions: 1,000 ETH Vesting Period: 5 months (20% token released per month, starting from token release)Main Sale: 16,000 ETH KYC/AML Required 1 ETH = 70,000 MVP Min Contributions: 0.1 ETH Max Contributions: 5 ETH No vesting period Period: May 4, 2018, 8am CST — May 9, 2018, 8am CSTToken Release: 6 weeks after token contribution completes.Can’t Participate: China, USAFor More Information VisitWebsite: https://merculet.io/White paper : https://merculet.io/static/pdf/Merculet_Whitepaper_V0331a-EN.pdfBitcointalk Ann: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3180239Telegram : https://t.me/merculetMedium : https://medium.com/merculetFacebook :https://www.facebook.com/Merculet-347541915747100Twiter:https://twitter.com/Merculet_ioGithub: https://github.com/MerculetAuthor :Bitcointalk user : nguyentuit5aBitcointalk url: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1502146