
Bitcoin Technical Analysis — March 2, 2018Bitcoin (BTC) has been on a rebound after an abysmal start to the year. After bottoming out at ~$6400 in early April, the price now sits at $9250 as of 6:00 PM EST on May 2nd. Let’s take a closer look at the recent price action and see where Bitcoin might be heading.Weekly Bitfinex Bitcoin Chart (Source: TradingView)We’ll start on the weekly timeframe, where a number of bullish signals have started to form over the last month. The sharp move downwards to $6000 in early February set the first major weekly low in our current downtrend. The first encouraging sign for Bitcoin occurred when the next major drawdown bottomed out above this low at around $6400. The essence of any bullish trend is price making higher lows and higher highs, and vice versa for bearish trends. We now have our higher low, but Bitcoin has still yet to make a higher high by breaking the double top at $11,800. While forming a higher low and breaking above the trending resistance (blue line) are both bullish signals, it’s still too soon to say the overall trend has definitively reversed.Daily Bitfinex Bitcoin Chart (Source: TradingView)As we zoom into the daily timeframe, we can start to look for clues as to what might happen in the more immediate future. Overall, the daily is painting a similar picture as the weekly: bullish, but not definitively bullish. One of the more encouraging signs is that Bitcoin seems to have finally broken through the strong Kijun resistance (purple line) that it bounced decisively from three times in Februrary and March. The Kijun, one part of the Ichimoku Cloud indicator, is the price point that lies 50% between the highest high and lowest low over the last 60 candles (this can change depending on your Cloud settings). It often acts as a reliable level of support or resistance, especially when it flattens out over multiple periods.In conjunction with breaking above the Kijun resistance, the price also moved into the Ichimoku Cloud itself. By moving into the cloud, a popular trade setup called an “edge to edge” has formed. The setup is simple: when price moves upwards into the cloud, it is likely to reach the other side, and vice versa. There are some factors that make this setup more likely to complete, such as the Tenkan (blue line) being higher than the Kijun (purple line). While that isn’t the case currently, it is getting very close, and a cross is likely to occur if the price continues to consolidate at current levels. If the edge to edge completes, it would result in a new weekly high with price moving above $11,800, and would be a major step in beginning a new bullish trend.As price consolidates inside the cloud, it is also forming a bullish pennant pattern which signals that continuation of the upwards trend is likely. There is also a textbook descending volume profile to accompany the pennant, which should result in a spike in volume once price breaks through the pennant in either direction. Additionally, the StochRSI is resetting during this consolidation period, which will give it plenty of room to run on a possible upwards breakout before it becomes overbought.In conclusion, I’m cautiously optimistic on Bitcoin for the time being. The best case scenario would be a strong upwards breakout of the pennant within the next couple of days, but I would remain bullish even on a dip to as low as $8200. I’ll be back next week with another Bitcoin market review, but until then you can follow me on Twitter.Happy Trading!— Falcon