
FORTUNA (FOTA) | A NGC Backed Projectfota.top newly designed websiteWhat is FORTUNA (FOTA)?FORTUNA is the first block chain platform for global OTC Derivative Market. It aims to solve major problems such as lack of trust, operational inefficiency, illiquidity, and lack of variety through decentralized consensus algorithm DPOSA, structured smart contracts, a decentralized quote scheme and other features of block chain.As the title suggest, FORTUNA (FOTA), is a project backed by Neo Global Capital (NDC) Group, the same group currently invested in; Trinity Network, A New Kind of Network, Bluzelle, Zilliqa, Mainframe, Ontology and more. Unlike the other NGC backed projects, FOTA isn’t as widely known as the others. FOTA is (haven’t launched yet and is currently a standard ERC20 token on the Ethereum network) it’s own block chain for “global OTC derivatives market” (binary options). Expect their main net to be released around quarter 3 of this year.What are derivatives?According to Wikipedia….In finance, a derivative is a contract that derives its value from the performance of an underlying entity. This underlying entity can be an asset, index, or interest rate, and is often simply called the “underlying”.Portfolio screenshot from ngc.fund (NEO Global Capital)FORTUNA ICOWhile FOTA has completed their Initial Coin Offering (ICO) this past January, the blockchain/trade token is currently trading slightly under its ICO price. If you’ve happened to have read my last article on the Upcoming Block Chain ICOs, you know that block chains are one of the most profitable (according to the study conducted by Walrus CAP) categories of ICOs, only trailing behind Exchanges and Data Services.What I find interesting here is that FOTA falls into two of the top 3 categories of ICOs based on return on investment (ROI), has key partnerships, and renowned backing. Yet, this project is still heavily under the radar in comparison to other similar projects and projects backed by Neo Global Capital. Sitting at roughly 25,000,000 market cap (MCAP) and just over 1,000,000 daily trade volume transactions, this project definitely has room to grow. Especially, since FOTA is checking off key items on their roadmap.Note: ICO Drops has FORTUNA’s (FOTA) “risk rate” listed as high. Upon further investigation into this, I’ve found that (public information that is freely discussed in the telegram chat, linked below) FORTUNA offered up to a 100% bonus during their pre-sale.Meaning, pre-sale participants only need half the amount to break even than main/crowd sale participants require. This may be the reason why a highly efficient project is trading below its initial coin offering, suggesting that consolidation is happening. However, please do your own research, as this is not financial advice and this article is purely my opinion only.https://blackfriday.fota.top/#/homeBlack Friday (Trading Platform)Their trading platform, Black Friday, recently released to the public for beta testing. As of today, you can only trade Bitcoin, while in the future, more cryptocurrencies and options will be added.If you’re familiar with derivatives market, you may want to click the link at the bottom of this blog to give their platform a try. As mentioned before, it’s still in testing phase and is currently paying a bounty of up to 60 FOTA (FORTUNA’s native token) for bugs reported. If your not not familiar with derivatives, you may still want to check out the Black Friday platform to familiarize yourself (along with a lot of google research and contact with your financial advisor) prior to the addition of more options.FORTUNA’s TeamNothing is more comforting while sifting through potential investment opportunities is to be greeted with a highly capable, well rounded, ivy leave educated team. That’s exactly what you’ll find behind FORTUNA.The founder Brian Cai, has significant experience managing large size funds in the private banking industry and earned his Master’s of Science is Computer Science from the prestigious, Ivy League University, Yale. Co-founder Jason Tao, has relevant work experience at technological giant companies, Microsoft and Alibaba (Asian market similar to Amazon). Co-founder Tony Zhang, also has experience with tech giant Alibaba and software/hardware cellular company Nokia. Director of trading, L.T. Luan, also earned his master’s of science from Yale University and has worked as a day trader for large firms in Chicago, IL.These are kind of accolades you should hope to see for an ambitious project. To read more about their team, you can visit fota.top.PartnershipsStrategic Partnerships are more than just announcements for temporary price surges, but are indeed key for project’s success. FORTUNA isn’t lacking in this department with several well established projects on board with derivative platform. These partnerships include, but aren’t limited to:NEO Smart EconomyQTUMGenesisLoopring (NEO)For more information on FORTUNA or to stay up date with the success of their project, you can use the links below to connect with their telegram, newsletter, and more (be careful of unverified links, scams, and always confirm with the team).