
At its simplest, Ethereum is an open software platform based on blockchain technology that enables developers to build and deploy decentralized applications.What Is the Difference Between Bitcoin and Ethereum?Bitcoin:Nobody owns it. It’s a decentralized technology online. There’s no corporate ladders but there’re core teams and developers around the world that are working on the Bitcoin protocol together to expand the technology.Really really good at storing value. It has the same immutable ledger since 10 years ago.Scalability and speed issue transactions per second. For example, it’s not viable for me to go inside a store and buy something instantaneously at the current moment. It’s good at remittances sending money internationally for pennies because I don’t need the money instantaneously. I can wait an hour to get my money.Functions on proof of work. For example, computations of gaming graphics of GPUs. They put all these mathematical things to solve a problem by random solving. It’s actually guesswork. Computers are guessing a certain nuts these mathematical equations solve a problem and hence goes to the blockchain.Based on C++. Not too many people learn it today. It’s kind of convoluted.Ethereum:A completely different blockchain protocol.Real figure heads to run Ethereum. There’re these key people that you can actually speak to in real life to get real feedback on what’s going on with Ethereum.Decentralized apps. Think of Ethereum kind of like Linux or Microsoft where people would build on top of those softwares. You have the Ethereum blockchain as the base as the protocol, then you have these depth decentralized applications that are built on top of Ethereum.Based on smart contracts. Small contracts are kind of like digital code / trigger that you can implement online to execute certain tasks that you need. For example, I put on an escrow and put a certain rule on escrow meaning that when certain people register their 5 votes into this escrow, that escrow will automatically open up and send 5 people these many cryptocurrency Ether. It’s a same thing like a vending machine where I put in a dollar and press a code. That code executes a trigger that spins out different candy bars for me and I get it. It’s no different than what we do in email marketing with automation. If you’re familiar with automation setting up funnels, that’s what smart contracts are. They’re based on triggers and rules and laws they implement but based on Ether currency.Has its own cryptocurrency Ether. Ether makes Ethereum run.Proof of state virtual mining.Based on JavaScript. If you’re very good at JavaScript, you can easily learn their programming language called Solidity. It’s quite easy principles to learn.ConclusionEthereum is more flexible than Bitcoin. It has a different methos than Bitcoin. It’s not claiming to be the true source of storing value. As like Bitcoin might be digital gold and it’s more like a hedge. Ethereum is trying to be a true software company where other software developers and startups can build on top of it. As well as with the Ethereum protocol you need small amount of Ether to run as gas. Without these amount of Ether, you can’t execute a smart contract.Ethereum is a new blockchain separate from Bitcoin that has co-founders around the world, small contracts which are different from Bitcoin, a different cryptocurrency which is Ether, decentralized applications you can build on top of Ethereum. It’s considered the world’s computer and proof of state.