
Blockvest Blockchain DerivativesBlockVest has tested a way to trade derivatives using “smart contracts” and blockchain technology being developed by a consortium of the world’s leading banks, the Blockchain Assets Based Decentralized Exchange & Index Fund said on Tuesday.A derivative is essentially a trading contract between two or more parties that can take many forms and is based on an underlying asset.Currently, the contracts are made up of three main parts with a body called the Blockchain Swaps and Derivatives Association (BSDA) creating the standards across the financial world for blockchain derivative trading. But the process is arduous with current paper contracts in the form of computer documents still being issued.A “smart contract” on the other hand is a computer program that can automatically execute the terms of a contract when certain conditions are met, potentially taking a lot of the human involvement out of completing a deal.How it worksIn Blockvest’ trial, the Decentralized Cryptocurrency Exchange created a smart contract, an electronic document whose fields could be pre-populated with certain values agreed by the BSDA. This way, all the parties will have the same document which will not vary slightly from peer to peer, something that can cause delays and unnecessary human intervention.The parties involved could then populate the fields with the terms of the derivatives agreement such as the price with any changes being recorded. Those can then be seen online. Previously, a centralized clearinghouse would have to search through its inbox or pile of documents to find an earlier version of the draft.“You have the original developers that came up with solutions like Satoshi in 2009 with Bitcoin. They came out with a currency, they didn’t have the intention to be trader’s, day traders, or hedge fund traders creating a speculative bubble of trading it back and forth. It’s different ecosystems, you got the mass market, you got the traders on wall street and you got the developers that came up with solutions to solve problems within the current market structure. They are all meeting here at your desk and they are colliding.” David Drake, Chief Strategy Officer of Blockvest Decentralized Exchange & Index Fund and lead at Blockvest’ investment banking division, told CNBC in an interview.Of course, a number of legal documents are required alongside a trade for it to happen. These documents would be sent to all parties involved, agreed on, and the trade carried out. Currently, each party has their own version of the legal documents. By having centralized documentation storage all parties will be able to settle trades quicker and cheaper.Blockchain and smart contractsBlockchain is the technology that underlies the cryptocurrency bitcoin. It works like a huge, decentralized ledger for bitcoin which records every transaction and stores this information on a global network so it cannot be tampered with. Banks feel blockchain technology can be utilized in areas from remittances to securities exchanges in order to reduce costs and make the process more efficient.Blockchain provides the chance for smart contracts to be recorded in an immutable and secure way, which means regulators and banks will have an immutable record of transactions taking place. This could also remove the need for many lawyers and bankers carrying out mundane administrative tasks around data input.To validate a transaction, all parties would submit their contracts. This could include a number of banks and regulators. When all parties agree on the contracts, then the transaction — in the case of Blockvest’ experiment, a derivative — would be traded.What is BlockVest?Blockvest is the use of blockchain technology and digital identity to digitize assets, the use of smart contracts for digital assets to be self-managed, to achieve a “smart economy” with a distributed network. This allows Blockvest to provides Collateralized Token Built on a Profit Sharing Smart Contract that generates passive income.Blockchain Investments helps its clients create passive income from Blockvest Nvestnodes. Nvestnodes are similar to bitcoin mining but are a much more efficient use of the network and are much less complex. Nvestnodes have some crucial additional functionalities which give them more utility than Bitcoin. Utility is a primary driver of value for cryptocurrencies. Blockvest connects collateral holders with people who require low volatility, which creates an incentive-based market for stability. Collateral holders are rewarded when users transact in the stablecoin, compensating them for staking the system. We enable individual asset coins to be bundled and listed as Digital Asset Arrays similar to ETFs, Futures Contracts and Forex Currency Pairs. This will allow investors to diversify their Cryptocurrency portfolio with traditional financial products written on smart contracts, recorded on the Blockchain and settled in Cryptocurrency. The Blockvest Project is starting with Blockvest Nvestnodes but we anticipate a future of BlockVest Blockchain Derivatives in the very near future — all of which can be listed on exchanges around the world and be traded globally.Our mission at Blockchain Investment Group is to make the financial markets more accessible and cost efficient for customers of all size in all geographic locations. Decentralizing Financial Services and putting the financial power back in the hands of the people where it belongs.Investing in Blockvest is like investing in the top cryptocurrencies all at once without doing all the research. Instantly owning a diverse cryptocurrency portfolio is now as easy as holding a single token.Uber decentralized the taxi cab industry, AirBnB decentralized the hotel industry, Blockvest will decentralize the financial services industry.“Don’t look for the needle in the haystack…just buy the whole haystack.”Reginald RinggoldHome | Blockvest ICOBlockvest is the use of blockchain technology and digital identity to digitize assets, the use of smart contracts for…blockvestico.io