
Quarkchain ICO :-Quarkchain is an upcoming ICO. This project has generated immense momentum, hype and has captured the interest of all the investors out there. Here we take a look at what Quarkchain is and how it useful and also it will help you to decide whether you should invest in this project or not.As per definition Quarkchain is a high capacity peer to peer transactional system.Quarkchain is attempting to solve one of the BIGGEST constraints that holds crypto and blockchain tech back from wider mainstream adoption.The Quarkchain is raising funds for developing a multi-layer, peer-to-peer transaction blockchain. The first layer of system contains shards, while the second layer is comprised of a root chain. The architecture of Quarkchain is predicated on finding a balance between security, scalability and decentralization.Scalability Issue :-Major issues affecting blockchain technology is scalability.Just think of the times when your internet was so slooooowwwwww that websites took god forbid, at least 10 to 30 seconds to load rather than mere seconds, or when you could only watch YouTube videos at 144p rather than 720p, and even at that rate it may have taken a few minutes for videos to load.This is exactly the same deal when it comes to blockchains today.Blockchain as a technology was developed to support secure transactions at huge scale. Bitcoin is the first generation of blockchain technology and has been adopted widely. Ethereum, the second generation of technology, introduced smart contracts. Traditionally, blockchains network gets blocked as more people try to use it at the same time. Even ethereum and Neo is notorious for slowing down during crowdsales of various ICOs, no need to write the names of ICO’s. If we go by present capacity, Ethereum can process only about 35 TPS (or transactions per second), while Visa claims to process more than 55,000 TPS. This is however a very small number in front of the ocean that’s required to manage the financial transactions of the globe in coming years. This is a major hurdle in the widespread adoption of blockchain technology.Here it comes the need of a decentralized, high-performance, high bandwidth blockchain that can manage such huge number of transactions.The likes of Zilliqa, Kadena, Dfinity, Thunder Token, etc. are all attempting to solve this problem. And this is what quarkchain is also want to do.What’s QuarkChain got to do with all of this?Well, they claim to have a solution when it comes to blockchain scalability.And not only that, Quarkchain wants to bring the number of transactions per second to go beyond the moon with not just 10,000, no, not even 100,000 but yes, 1 MILLION transactions per second! That’s hugeeeee.TPS ComparisonSharding :-In sharding, a dataset is horizontally fragmented to create smaller datasets, called ‘shards’. This method has been widely used in centralized data systems. As per Quarkchain’s whitepaper, a mature blockchain like Ethereum will require 3–5 years before properly implementing sharding. On the other hand, Quarkchain has been designed to make effective use of sharding and is much more efficient in this regard.Sharding in decentralized networks comes with its own share of problems. Verification of cross-shard transactions is one of the major challenges associated with sharding in blockchains. Moreover, it requires much less hash power (or processing power) to take over one shard as compared to taking over the whole blockchain. Even one shared compromised can lead to a security failure in the blockchain.Quarkchain Team:-Quarkchain has 9 apex members in their team, as displayed on their website. Qi Zhou is the founder of project Quarkchain. A PhD scholar in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Georgia Institute of Technology, he has more than 14 years of development experience. Zhaoguang Wang, a software engineer with expertise in large scale distributed systems, has 6 years of work experience in Google and Facebook, alongwith a MS in Computer Science from University of Michigan.Quarkchain also has research scientists in their team with a strong connection to academia. Xiaoli Ma is a Professor at Georgia Institute of Technology, with a PhD in Electrical Engineering from University of Minnesota. Yaodong Yang, PhD from Virginia Polytechnic, has authorized over 50 papers in peer reviewed journals. He is working on blockchain development and research in his role as Professor at Xi’an Jiaotong University. Ting Du is a Founder of Demo++ and has done M.D., Ph.D. from the University of Rochester Medical Center. Wencen Wu, PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Georgia Tech, is currently Assistant Professor at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. The team members have impeccable credentials, and a specially strong connection to Georgia Tech. The advisors and early investors are some of the best in the industry.Competitors :-When it comes to competitors there are many who are looking to solve scalability however they’re all still a work in progress.The closest comparable is Zilliqa and only because Zilliqa uses sharding to achieve scalability, whereas QuarkChain uses a bit more of a novel innovative sharding method, it doesn’t necessarily fall under the “normal” definition of sharding.However, QuarkChain already has a testnet up and running, as does Zilliqa, so it is now very much a race to see who can get their mainnet up and running first to gain the first mover’s advantage although I do see it‘s possible for both of them to thrive.Future Events:-1. Q2: Release of testnet 1.02. Q4: QuarkChain Core 1.0 Mainnet 1.0 SmartWallet 1.0Token Metrics :-The hardcap for the Quarkchain ICO is $20m, with $16m for private sale and $4m for crowdsale. Total supply of tokens is 1 billion. Private sale participants have been offered a bonus of 25%, but all tokens will be released in phases — 10% each month for first 4 months, and 20% each month after that. Crowdsale has no bonus, and no lock-up.The whitelist is scheduled to begin on Monday (i.e. 7th May, 2018). The individual hardcaps haven’t been decided yet. The team will decide the hardcap in the crowdsale as per cut-off time or you can say the timestamp at which you joined their Telegram group which is 05/04 11:59:59 A.M. PSTQuarkchain claimed in a Medium post that the hardcap would depend on ‘whitelist/KYC speed’ (whatever that meant!) and that they would be using a ‘bottom-up tier style’ to keep the process as fair as possible. For the time being Medium account is suspended due to some technical reasons. the timestamp at which you joined their Telegram group would also be taken into account during the KYC process.Quarkchain Token Sale DetailsLet’s wrap up :-This is likely a project that you’ll want to watch moving forward. It seems that Quarkchain was much less quackery and leaned more towards being revolutionary.I will be definitely investing in the crowdsale and see how the things progress.Link to all their channelsOfficial Website: https://www.quarkchain.io/Twitter: https://twitter.com/Quark_ChainTelegram: https://t.me/quarkchain （EN）Announcement Chanel: https://t.me/QuarkChain_NewsLIKED IT? Don’t forget to show some love by clapping. CLAP right away.Thanks!!!