
Credo and the Future Economy of AttentionAs you may know, BitBounce is a cryptocurrency-based spam solution that eliminates unwanted emails by letting users request a fee from unknown senders for emails to be delivered. If you’re already a BitBounce user, you either enjoy your clean inbox and save time, or get paid for receiving emails. And if you’re still not a BitBounce user, I absolutely encourage you to sign up — however that’s not the subject of this article.The base idea behind BitBounce can be applied to many other fields totally unrelated to email and spam. That’s what I want to talk about: the broader vision of the future economy our team is planning to bring.If you ask yourself why email spam even exists, you’ll find that there is a perfectly valid reason for it: businesses want to contact their potential customers. Of course the current way they are doing that is often intrusive, unacceptable, and illegal in most countries unless a consumer authorizes them to do this. And that’s exactly what BitBounce offers: a legal and mutually consensual way of sending and receiving commercial emails.Going one step further, the framework itself can be used in virtually any area where advertisement exists. Imagine a world where you are either paid for consuming ads or don’t see them at all. Could this be the future? We believe so.Think about it: how is a Facebook video advertisement you see in your feed different from a spam email? You don’t want either of them. They require your attention and waste your time, giving you nothing useful in return except the service you’re viewing it on. Moreover, unlike a spam email, the video ad isn’t actually free for the advertiser. It was paid to be shown in your feed, but you are not the one to earn the money spent for showing it — the publisher is. That’s simply unfair. To make things worse, for the current quasi-monopolists of the advertising industry, the money received from showing you ads is their main source of income, the users are the main assets and their primary source of value, but still you as a user are not allowed to monetarily benefit from that.That can, and must, be changed. We believe that a significant portion of the money advertisers spend on showing ads should be earned by their customers, not just publishers. If you spend time viewing ads, that can and should be rewarded.For the end user, that means you will stop giving time for free. For the advertisers, that means that they contact their customers directly, bypassing publishers, and will pay the saving to the end users for their attention. Looks like a win-win for everyone, doesn’t it? Ah, monopolists, probably not for you.What is also important about this approach is that it has a social and humanitarian aspect. Improvements in AI and robotics technologies may create an economy in which many people are unable to find work, and getting paid for viewing ads may become a stable source of income for those affected. As some governments see less than satisfying results from Universal Basic Income trials, paid ad consuming may be a more realistic and viable alternative which has the benefits of both free market self-regulation and social care.With BitBounce spam solution as our first successful product that implements this concept, we actually aim to revolutionize the whole advertisement industry and create a new economic system based on paying customers. This is why we need our token Credo: it’s the new fuel for this new economy we’re building.For quite some time, buying and selling Credo wasn’t as simple as we wanted it to be, and that’s why we’re releasing our next product: CredoEx, a cryptocurrency exchange. It is designed with ease of use in mind, so even if you’ve never used an exchange before, you’ll find it simple and convenient to work with.By becoming a Credo owner, you participate in the future attention economy, one that is more just and humane than what we have now. Would you like to build it with us?