
Zebi Project ReviewIntroduction: Zebi is an India based blockchain company that is paving the way for an innovative blockchain based security solution for India’s Big Data.What problem is Zebi trying to solve? High value data like land registry, educational documents, employment, transaction and health records are required by individuals and organizations as part of their routine activities. However, current mechanism of data exchange is mostly manual, paper based, slow and fraught with risks of tampering, forgery and thefts.The Zebi SolutionZebi solution ecosystem consists of 2 interconnected components..Zebi Chain,aims to secure high value and sensitive critical data records on the Ethereum blockchain, such as land registry, employee and salary records, pension payments, education and other qualification documents and certificates. Land titles and the Hospitality Industry are the primary focus right now.Zebi Data Gateway, is a central data gateway and works in conjunction with Zebi chain. Zebi Data Gateway, will enable secure and instant data exchange to occur between verification requestors through Data-as-aService (DaaS) APIs and subjects giving consent where required.Zebi ChainZebi Chain is a proprietary lightweight satellite application, installed at various Data Providers’ premises (such as Universities, Education Boards, Enterprises or Government Departments), to provide immutability to the source of truth data using Blockchain based ledger.Zebi safeguards data against hacking and tampering, while obtaining consent from individuals. It will eliminate all the ambiguity associated with fake transactions and fake documents as blockchain based records are time stamped and any alteration made to it are also securely recorded. This data can be verified without any human intervention, therefore not leaving any scope for manipulation or copying of sensitive information by unscrupulous insiders or external hackers. The number of nodes in the private Blockchain is configurable and integrates with public Blockchain to further enhance tamper proof protection. Smart contracts enabled on Zebi Data Gateway ensure that data exchange occurs only with consent and that all stake holder receive their deserved share of the data monetization.Summary of Zebi Chain key features:· Blockchain based immutability for access and updates on records of documents.· A single node application or a private permissioned blockchain between a group of data owners· Facilitates seamless DaaS API based data exchange process· Eliminates need for manual effort required to attend data requests and manual checking of records· Enables data exchange without any human intervention, hence doesn’t leave any scope for manipulation or copying of sensitive information by unscrupulous insiders· Hash of private data is stored on public blockchain giving superior tamper proof and other benefits such as publishing of hash on 25,000 nodes across the globe and zero downtimes· All data creation and changes are accompanied with digital signatures of the individual performing such updates on Zebi ChainHow far along is Zebi?· The team has 23 full-timeemployees, out of which 16 are full-time developers. Offices are across two cities in India. Two years in production.· The Zebi product is currently LIVE in productionwith basic features. The product is ISO 27001 Information Security certified, and one patent is filed and pending.· Zebi is currently deployed to protect digitized land records for Andhra Pradesh — an Indian State Government· Zebi has just launched a new product — Zebi AI Chain for the Hospitality Industry and is currently in over 200 hotels in India· Zebi have signed a multi-year contract exclusive work order with Andhra Pradesh that has a population of 60 million (work order has been seen by RS)· Zebi has also submitted proposals to two additional state governments with a combined population of over 160 million· The combined value of market available in India for both the products is pegged at $5 billion9 annually (according to Zebi research)· Zebi has a healthy pipeline of prospects across India and is prospecting through its affiliates for projects across Singapore, USA and other countries· Zebi are not just dependent on Government contracts. The goal is to bring all big data to blockchain, both public institutions and private institutions like private colleges & hospitals. We expect more releases over the coming months indicating partnerships with private institutions· Zebi demo: https://m.youtube.com/watch?t=333s&v=Sux-LOCp7RAIndia’s big data explained:According to conservative estimates, India’s big data generation is increasing exponentially and is expected to reach 3 Zebibytes per year by 2020. Most of this data is collected and stored by institutions that hold clients’ assets centrally such as banks, telecoms, insurance companies, hospitals, governments, and more. However, in recent years, public media has repeatedly covered controversial incidents related to privacy and security, questioning the current model, in which centralized organizations collect and control massive amounts of personal data. This model exposes sensitive data to several risks such as data Leaks and fraud. Two such recent instances of data leaks: Reliance Jio (2017) — 120 million customer data leaked and Aadhaar (2017) — 210 Government websites made confidential information public.Land titles:One of the major issues regarding conducting business in India comes from an issue that is commonplace in many parts of the world — incomplete land titles. Disputed ownerships can last decades and have severe consequences, such as if you don’t have a valid title to your land, you can’t borrow against it, and you can’t plan for the future. Tampering and altering data is a problem being faced by various departments of the government in India. Zebi is taking on land titles as its first major task.Hospitality Industry: Zebi just announced end of April that its Blockchain based Artificial Intelligence (AI) solution is now being implemented in the Hospitality Industry. Top brand hotels in Vizag, Andhra Pradesh, India, such as Novotel, The Park, Taj Gateway, Ginger use Zebi AI Chain, not only to protect their guest data, but also to help law enforcement officials in proactive identification and prevention of criminal activities.Zebi AI Chain solution is currently deployed at more than 200 hotels and are preparing for full scale deployment across all the hotels in India. The total market of online hotel bookings in India is expected to be more than $2.3 Billion by 2020 as per Deutsche Bank Report.India Government & Blockchain:· India has set-up an expert committee to draft a Data Protection Bill. This committee of experts will study various aspects of data protection and to suggest a data protection bill for India, including data sovereignty.· Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development (APCRDA) is the Governmental department that Zebi are working with for land record digitization https://www.crda.ap.gov.in/· APCRDA are already using the Zebi solution for all electronic recording of land titles.· The PM of India has endorsed Blockchain publicly on Twitter· In 2015, the Government launched the “Smart City Mission”, which has plans for the development of one hundred smart cities by the year 2020. The projects $7.5-billion injection will be used towards the development of core infrastructures. Hardeep Singh Puri, the union minister of state for housing and urban affairs, stated that the four ‘Smart City’ projects in Andrha Pradesh are expected to be completed by financial year 2020–21.· Andhra Pradesh is on a mission to become its first major adopter of Blockchain Technology and is being dubbed as the New Tech State of India. The four smart City projects in Andhra Pradesh are set to be completed by 2020–21. Zebi has aligned itself with the governments Smart City Mission and believes that it can be an ambassador for Blockchain Technology in India.Revenue Model:Zebi Chain™ is being offered as an on-premise software in either License + Annual Maintenance Cost (AMC) mode or monthly subscription mode, depending on the comfort and choice of the Data Provider. Zebi Data Gateway shall charge transaction fees for every transaction made through it from the Data Requestors. The revenue from Data Requestors is shared with Data Providers and Individuals as an incentive to enable seamless transaction processing. Zebi will add more features to its products such as enabling blockchain secured seamless payments (FIAT as well as Crypto currencies) for all the transactions processed on its Blockchain solution.Marketing / news / community:The team are working with partners that have expertise in marketing and have an aggressive campaign including rolling out social media videos and advertisements across youtube influencers, and have run an airdrop lottery that encourages community participation and articles being published on multiple news websites and affiliates. Telegram and Twitter channels have around 14,000 members each. In the news recently:· http://www.thehindubusinessline.com/business-wire/zebi-la unches-zebi-chain-a-blockchain-based-big-data-solution-for-g overnments-and-enterprises/article10020132.ece· http://www.financialexpress.com/industry/zebi-data-this-sta rt-up-secures-data-elements/1055093/· https://www.deccanchronicle.com/nation/current-affairs/161 217/3-innovative-apps-to-up-amaravatis-expansion.html· https://m-economictimes-com.cdn.ampproject.org/c/s/m.eco nomictimes.com/small-biz/startups/newsbuzz/companies-ar e-counting-on-initial-coin-offerings-next/amp_articleshow/6 2940615.cms· https://medium.com/@BabuMunagala/zebi-launches-new-product-zebi-ai-chain-for-the-hospitality-industry-743f3849a274· https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/info-tech/blockchain-start-up-zebi-data/article23739844.ecePartners:· Torque Capital Partners: VC firm based in California with an impressive portfolio· Alpha Blockchain Solutions· APCRDA: Andhra Pradesh Capital Region DevelopmentRoadmapTimelime in Whitepaper goes out to 2020 Q4. This year’s plan includes establishing Zebi for Land Registry records, employment records and rolling out API’s.Token:Zebi Coin (ZCO), is an ERC20 standard token based on Ethereum Blockchain powered smart contract. It is a utility token which will be used as mode of payment for all Zebi services including settlement of transactions within the ecosystem. The ZCO paid by Requestor for a data transaction will be distributed among Data Provider, Individual and Zebi as a reward for making the transaction happen. The proportion in which this sharing will happen will be governed by a smart contract which can be adjusted by consensus among the participants. ZCO will incentivize all participants to use, contribute and grow the Zebi Data Ecosystem, Thus ZCO will be the fourth member of the Ecosystem which will keep all the members bonded with each other in their collective growth journey.ICO:· ICO was held on 5th March and sold out in a few seconds. Total supply of tokens 1bill. 1 ZCO = 0.0000333 ETH· Total hard-cap was 10m USD (10,000 ETH). This consisted of Pre-sale approx. 2,000 ETH, Strategic Partners approx. 6,400 ETH, ICO remaining is a small amount of approx. 1,600 ETH.·The pre-sale sold out fast and received a 30% bonus and the crowd sale was originally stated as 8m but reduced to 1.5m after signing strategic partners onboard.· Most of the funds will be used for R&d, marketing, building partnerships and expanding their team. Zebi have kept some tokens for future fundraisers if required but any more funding rounds can only be done after 18 months of ICO finish date and if they can justify the cost to the communityExchanges:ZCO is currently trading on Qryptos and IDEX. In discussions with five other larger exchanges.Core Team:Zebi is founded, mentored and managed by Stanford, MIT, Oxford and IIT veterans and thought leaders from Silicon Valley with experience in Google, Uber, Amazon, Microsoft, and Oracle.· Babu Munagala:Founder & CEO. Nearly 19yrs at Oracle. Studied at IIT Madras (top university in India)· Sudheer Kuppam:Co-founder: 18years in VC, studied at IIT Madras. Specialist in Cloud storage, robotics.· Kalyan Muppaneni:Board Member. Previously an Enterprise Architect with Intel for 15 years and currently CEO at Pi Datacentre.· Phani Arega:VP Engineering. Previously at Tata ($150b Indian megaconglomate), a Dell subsidiary and a decade as a manager at Oracle. Expert in software development, although not blockchain.· Gopal Bang:Director of Operations. Ex Bank Of America. Previously an Operations Manager at Hitatchi before founding his own offshore shared services team.· Renuka Rathode : Product Strategist. Renuka is currently an active member of the startup/entrepreneur scene in India, leading and mentoring numerous startups through her program.· The rest of the team are just as impressive, with specalists in machine learning, blockchain and data scientists.Advisors:Zebi has 14 advisors that each have strong backgrounds. Some of the advisors have 1000+ followers on linkedin.· Randall Kaplan: A prominent venture investor as recenty joined the team as an advisor. Randall is the CEO of Jump Investors, he is focused on jump starting companies, helping them develop during their early and growth stages. His other successful projects include Sandee, LLC, a travel company, and CollarCard, LLC, which sells patented men’s collar stays in 30 plus countries worldwide.· Vasu Parameswaran:held roles such as Senior Engineering manager, principal Engineering manager, principal scientist at companies such as UBER, Microsoft, Nokia and Siemens. Also a P.H.D in computer science from University of Maryland· Rao Surapaneni: Principal engineering manager at Microsoft and M.B.A from University of California· Murali Abburi:Managing director Graticule Asset management Asia and ex Vice President JP Morgan· Phil Mui:Senior Vice President Salesforce P.H.D from MIT and degrees from Harvard and Oxford universities.· Prahalad Thota:Senior Vice President Wells Fargo, Ex Vice President Charles Schwab, ex regional director PayPal, ex Director Capital One Services· Chandra Mallipedi:Hardware Quality and reliability engineering Facebook, Engineering manager Amazon LabsConclusion:Solving big data is a fantastic use-case of blockchain and Zebi is an exciting and ambitious project. The team is world class and the advisers bring experience from global top-tier companies. The team are already over 2 years into product development, and their private chain solution is currently used by a local government in India and in the hospitality industry. The whitepaper is well written and thorough. There appears to be no significant direct competitors in this space yet. Zebi are positioning themselves to be the “blockchain of India” and they are well on their way given their success with the ZCO token launch last week.RatingApplications 8.5Security 8.5Website 8Community 9Research and Development 8.5Use case 9Partnerships 7.5Total 8.4Basics:Ticker:ZCOType:ERC20ICO Token Price: 1 ZCO = 0.0000333 ETHExchanges: Qryptos and IDEX. Major exchanges coming soon.Telegram: http://bit.ly/telegram-zebiFacebook: http://bit.ly/fb-zebiTwitter: http://bit.ly/twitter-zebiReddit: http://bit.ly/reddit_zebiLinkedIn: http://bit.ly/Zebi-linkedinMedium: http://bit.ly/medium-zebi