
The Truth about Bitcoin CashWhat is Bitcoin Cash? Simply put, it’s a difference of opinion on how Bitcoin should scale. But there’s much more to the story of Bitcoin Cash than you may have heard…Before I begin, I want to make a request. I’d like you to actually click each and every link in this article.These links provide documented proof that the rest of this blog post is actually telling the truth. Keep me honest, and verify every claim I make by clicking those links. This will set this article apart from just an opinion piece written by a biased individual. More importantly, it will protect you intellectually from those who will try to say the content here is false. Proof is proof, and it will be provided every step of the way.The Identity of BitcoinThere is a battle going on for the identity of Bitcoin. One side wants to change it into a settlement layer which forces transactions off chain and through a separate transaction processing system that will generate profit for a centralized corporation called Blockstream.The other side wants to keep Bitcoin controlled by nobody. With transactions kept on-chain, decentralized on the World Wide Ledger. They vehemently oppose any corporate control, or conflict of interest over the direction or structure of Bitcoin, especially for the profit of a centralized company.Factions and MisconductEach side of this debate has used various methods to try and enforce its view of Bitcoin. One side (on-chain proponents) point to the White Paper which describes the Bitcoin they believe in, verbatim, from the Title to the entire first paragraph. Some own major websites like Bitcoin.com and have made sure to present Bitcoin Cash as the “real” bitcoin on it to millions of new investors.The other side has used censorship, mass-banning, and corrupt behavior to misinform most new people in the cryptocurrency space. They have not only locked down all information-sharing on the r/bitcoin subreddit, but they have infiltrated other subs with up, and down-voting bots using overwhelming fraud to further their goals to protect Blockstream’s control over Bitcoin and the billions it stands to make off it.How the hell did this even happen?Those of us who were here back in 2012 remember watching this play out. I personally have entrenched myself in 2–5 hours a day on this topic since I entered the space early 2012. This short but well-documented Medium post attempts to convey what I have seen, from my perspective, with as much honesty as my Mother instilled in me as a child. Much will be left out for the sake of brevity and ease of digestion. But what is here should be taken as truth. Because it is.Disillusionment, Concern, and AngerI was there. We were the ones screaming at the devs to increase Bitcoins capacity and make it more functional and innovative. Months … nay … years had gone by without so much as a single relevant upgrade to Bitcoin’s scaling capabilities. I was an avid listener of the Let’s Talk Bitcoin podcast where Andreas Antonopoulos expounded on Bitcoin’s purpose for social change. Banking the unbanked. Freeing people from those who held the money supply and abused their power.That was the social change bitcoin was supposed to make, and it is the reason it ever went from $0.01 a coin to $20,000 a coin in the first place. This social change can only be achieved if on-chain, cheap, fast transactions can be maintained along with other Layer 2 solutions to extend Bitcoin even further.I remember hearing one episode where Gavin Andresen was expressing frustration at the Bitcoin dev mailing list. Saying that it had gone months with almost no forward progress due to infighting and differences of opinion. He was extremely concerned for the long-term viability of Bitcoin given the development team that simply couldn’t produce results in a reasonable time, and seemed to be losing track of the original vision.Ultimately the users became impatient, frustrated, and very vocal. Reddit was filled with threads imploring the Core dev team to start scaling to bigger blocks now, so that Bitcoin could remain functional when it would be needed in the near future.Their response? They literally didn’t give a shit. I remember seeing them call these people the “sky is falling crew”, and responding to every post with the same comment: “We dont need it yet”. Fast forward 3 years, and that’s what spawned Bitcoin Cash, Bitcoin Unlimited, BitcoinXT, and all the other attempts to bypass the Core development team.Bitcoin OG’s on Bitcoin CashHere you can see the CEO of Coinbase meeting with them and walking away absolutely infuriated at their arrogance and unwillingness to work with anyone in the industry. (full article in link above)Here you can see Satoshi Nakamoto‘s right-hand man stating that Bitcoin Cash fits the description of the bitcoin he was working on with the founder Satoshi himself.Here you can see the creator of Ethereum, Vitalik Buterin, stating that Bitcoin Cash is what bitcoin was supposed to be, and that it was Core who “forked” away from the original vision. Not BCH.Bitcoin’s Purpose for Social ChangeFor people who were passionate about Bitcoins intended social change to “bank the unbanked”, and help the poorest in the world escape government seizure of their money, this was a very serious issue.Bitcoin was supposed to take power away from those who control the money supply and start wars that actually do kill innocent children (Core proponents actually mock that statement by the way). It was a nightmare living through those years. Watching Bitcoin become less and less relevant, because a handful of developers had a stranglehold on the repository.Bitcoin Core Becomes Bitcoin CorporateBut there was a reason for this strange behavior on the part of the Core developers. And everyone eventually found out what it was.They had started a company. A Corporation. With investors. Investors in the hundreds of millions.And they had a plan: To funnel all of bitcoins transactions off chain and charge for them. So they could get filthy rich.We finally understood why they wouldn’t increase bitcoin’s capacity on-chain. The Core devs had been bought off by a Corporation. In fact they had become a Corporation themselves.Banning, Censorship, and Thought ControlAnd that’s when all hell broke loose. And that’s when the banning started. Literally thousands of members of the community we’re getting booted from the Reddit sub for raising concerns. Simply because they disagreed with a Corporation coming in and strangling on-chain scaling to force usership of their new off-chain solution (Lightning), for profit.Some prominent founding figures gave up on Bitcoin altogether, and the rest migrated to r/btc.Vitalik Buterin (creator of Ethereum) himself spoke out against it many times.There’s no War in BitcoinThere’s corruption. Conflict of interest. Unethical behavior. And the destruction of Bitcoin’s functionality as a World Wide Ledger that the poorest in the world can participate in.There’s a group of people who have forgotten what Bitcoin’s purpose is, and have no problem allowing a for-profit corporation to come in and literally profit off of Bitcoin’s transaction volumes, while crippling its ability to perform its most basic function.And then there’s a group of people who want Bitcoin to keep transactions on the block chain where they belong. There is a valid technical debate as to whether this method is viable by itself.But here’s the important takeaway: Nobody in the Bitcoin Cash camp ever thought on-chain would be the end of the story. Everyone knows that both are needed.But you don’t cripple Bitcoin’s base layer with some pseudo-concern that 4 or 8 MB will introduce unfathomable security risks, when you’re really just refusing because raising the block size limit because it will mean that nobody needs Lightning Network in the first place. And you’ve got investors to pay back.If you had told me in 2012 that Bitcoin would be a block chain with almost no transactions on it because a Corporation had come in and found a way to get filthy rich by rerouting them, I wouldn’t have believed you.But that’s what happened, and that’s why I support Bitcoin Cash now.Just like Satoshi Nakamoto‘s right-hand man, Vitalik Buterin, the CEO of Coinbase, the CEO of BitPay, Lamassu, Gemini, and every other major player in this industry.