
Problems of the crypto-currency market. Mymining — Decentralized Solution.IntroductionWe would want to devote our first post to the acute issues existing in the crypto-currency market and o explain the way that Mymining.pro platform allows solving these problems. Humanity lives on the threshold of a new era. The world around is changing rapidly. A few years ago, the technology of the distributed registry was a portion of the elite, and today the world leaders and the largest financial institutions overtly broadcast about it on TV screens. The magic word “blockchain” has penetrated many aspects of life. We are going to discuss the features of each of the tasks that can be solved on the way to converting the crypto-currency market into a massively accessible, understandable and secure one.Below we will examine each of the tasks that will be solved on the way to transforming the crypto-currency market into a massively accessible, understandable and secure one.World: Uneven distribution of resources, expensive cloud servicesАt the moment the global world problem is that information resources are distributed unevenly, whether computing or data storage power. In the future, the uneven distribution will lead to the loss of unused resources.The decentralized distribution of computing power and the ability to use cloud storage will lead humanity to a fundamentally different paradigm for owning computing resources.Now, a person already does not need his own computer at home, he successfully replaced the phone, TV and game console.But what will happen in 3–5 years, when the technology of virtual reality and all the more complicated technical content from the technical point of view come to our life fully and what to do with huge computing power, when the majority of Altcoins go to POS?The answer is simple: all calculations and storage will completely go to the cloud, and the released computing power block will be leased for cloud computing through the platform.Society: Low audience awarenessDegree of complexity of mastering and perception of the crypto-currency market is equal to higher mathematics. It is important to be able to calculate the probability of risk, since the whole world of crypto-currency is a complex of problems and inconsistencies.It is very difficult to delve right away into all the nuances of the functioning of the crypto-currency world. It is important to be able to calculate the likelihood of risk, since the block, as a new direction of the economy, is a whole complex of problems and inconsistencies.Despite the high volatility of the market, people are no longer afraid of bitcoin and altcoins, an increase in the number of transactions surpasses all conceivable and unthinkable expectations of experts. Every second, up to 1000 operations are performed using crypto-currency assets on the earth. The phiatic world in which we all are accustomed to live, in a few years will not be able to compete with the new Digital Economy. Do not pay attention to this, means to lose the battle for the best, just world, which decentralization gives us the opportunity to create.Crypto community: Insufficient liquidityThe market of crypto currency is highly volatile, and it is very risky to make an exchange service with low commissions. Companies do not want to take risks on themselves, so they are pawned either in commissions, or straight in the price of the currency. this is insufficient liquidity because the crypto-currency market is super-strong todayCrypto-services: Big costs and a lot of disparate servicesIn the digital currency market, there is the problem of lack of a single, flexible platform where users can use all the necessary services through a single window. Users constantly need to re-register, open wallets to pass identification, pay commissions on different services, which results in a large amount that is withheld from the user in the end, plus a constant security control of a particular service.With such significant turnover, there is no simple entry with minimal commissions into the crypto-currency market .Centralization and low security.According to the Global Cryptocurrency Benchmarking Study, prepared by the researchers of the Cambridge Center for Alternative Finance, 49 of the 51 exchanges covered by the study are centralized. The centralization of the exchange service encourages the stock exchanges themselves to abuse. Moreover, the explosive growth of the cryptories has been turned by the leading exchanges, and hundreds of millions of US dollars, in a desperate target for hackers.Anyone who has at least once carried out transactions using crypto-currency was faced with mandatory registration of a cryptocurrency purse. The interested community has not yet reached the final safe decision to store crypto funds on purses. Over the past year, cybercriminals have stolen more than $ 1 trillion. Despite the global crypto-hype for several years now, users suffer from an underdeveloped security system and limited functionality of wallets and exchanges. In most of the wallets presented on the market, you can store only one currency, it can not be exchanged inside a wallet, or invested. There are two more important points: 76% of crypto-operators have no licenses, and bitcoin is the main digital currency that is supported by exchanges, purses and payment companies.P2P services can remove the severity of the problem, but those that exist today are limited to the functions of the trading platform — they simply reduce users to each other, but do not solve the security problem of the transaction. In addition, limited use in everyday life is affected.General description of the solutionHaving identified these problems and saw the possibilities, the Mymining team decided to create a decentralized platform with a high degree of security. We decided to merge all the necessary crypto and shelter services into a single product. For the convenience of users, several current services of the crypto-currency world will be merged: social network, marketplace, free cloud-mining pool, exchange and wallet, decentralized data storage and processing center. This is how the idea to create Mymining — the same-name solution for payments, purchases, conversions, mining and storage of crypto-currencies was born. Single entry point for users — All services of blocking in one application with minimal commissions.Decentralized multiservice Mymining is designed to simplify the use of crypto-currencies in everyday life, make cloud mining several times more affordable, and provide a convenient and secure way of storing assets in the new era of the Digital Economy. Our goal is to bring closer such a future, where everyone can independently manage and safely store savings in any of the currencies.In the following posts, we will try to write more in detail about the functional, technical characteristics and security system.While we invite everyone to participate Private Sale project Mymining, a link to the whitelist http://mymining.pro/Read more about Private Sale CompanyIf you have any questions, please use the contact information provided in this section in order to get consulting assistance from our specialists.If you have an interesting offer, you can to write to the head of the advertising department:pr@mymining.proIf you have any questions about selling tokens,Write to our support team:token@mymining.proAll complaints and suggestions you can discusswith the head of quality control:support@mymining.proThe beta version of the Mymining project https://mymining.proEnglish сommunity https://t.me/mymining_enFrench Community https://t.me/mymining_frRussian community https://t.me/mymining _rusFacebook https://www.facebook.com/myminingTwitter https://twitter.com/myminingYour suggestions: ceo@mymining.pro